
Hi [CUSTOMER],
Hope you’re doing great. I just wanted to say again how much I appreciate the personalized plan you put together for me — I’ve really been enjoying the dotFIT products and the structure it’s given me. It’s made a noticeable difference.
One thing I wanted to run by you: I’m doing most of my strength and HIIT training in the mornings now, but I’m also keeping to a pretty strict 16:8 intermittent fasting window. That means I don’t break my fast until around 1pm'ish, and I’m holding off on anything that contains calories, carbs, or sweeteners until then.
Would you happen to have a cleaner creatine option — ideally something I could take pre-workout without the sucralose or carbs?-- unflavored CreatineMonohydrate -  nothing in except creatine; Same goes for whey protein — looking for a cleaner version without fillers or added sugars that I could work into my post-fast meals – All Natural WheySmooth is as close as we come (no fillers, artificial anything, only 2gm Carbs from the natural sweetener) 
Also, since I’m using the Alln1Super Blend powder, I’ve removed the separate calcium pills from my stack you had recommended. Between the powder and my diet, I feel pretty covered — but would love your take on whether that’s a smart move. Just make sure you are getting between 1000-1200mgs/calcium daily from all things consumed. The Alln1 SuperBlend™ purposely has no calcium in it just as multivitamin and mineral formulas (MVM) should not because some people don’t need extra calcium, and you don’t want too much – just enough, therefore a calcium supplement should be taken as needed only.  
Lastly, given the fasted state for those AM workouts and the 4-5-hour delay before I can get any substantial protein or nutrients in — is there anything else you’d recommend I adjust to make sure I’m not compromising recovery or strength buildup? The AminoFormula before/during workout so its finished at the end of training session. On off days, use it at least once anytime in your fasting window (it won’t undo anything you are using IF for – i.e., health or weight/bodyfat loss goals). This is what we recommend to all IF people to keep them from losing too much muscle over time (4hours after your last meal with protein, the human body is in a catabolic state until next feeding with protein). We do not have an unsweetened version but it’s only 1gm of carbs and 10calories.
Really value your perspective, and always appreciate how much thought you put into the recommendations.
Talk soon,

