Hi [CUSTOMER],
Below (and attached for easy printing and viewing) is your nutrition guidelines including your complete supplement program.
Keep in mind all programs we create not only help prevent injury, speed recovery, improve training/exercise induced results but also contributes to better overall health while maximizing growth and development potential. Proper nutrition makes everyone better “on the field” and in the classroom.
Also attached is a sample 3500calorie menu (proper starting place for your current body weight) that incorporates the right types and percentages of foods along with meal timing that should be helpful. Substitute freely but stay close to the protein, carbs, fats and calorie ratios and meal timing. When weight/muscle gain and performance is the goal, it also gives complete weight gain instructions following weekly weigh-ins. I also placed those guidelines on your supplement program document along with meal timing. Mindful your actual total calories will continue to be adjusted based on size, activity, goal and weekly changes in weight as described.
We will send this first order to you on the house, just send back your shipping address and Chad (cc’d here) will handle it. Tell Chad the flavor of protein you would like (chocolate or vanilla). Jill will also set you up with a Friends and Family Account to get all your future needs at cost. Although detailed here, let’s get on a call to walk through the program and answer any questions. I have cc’d Jill here to set the time. 
James, get ready to get HUGE, and faster!
Talk soon!

Performance/Size Plan & Instructions with Creatine Monohydrate in Baseline with AF & Protein Stacking
Click on product links for a brief product description including short video
ActiveMV - Multivitamin & Mineral Formula
Take two (2) daily: one immediately following 1st large meal; one after final meal of the day.
Super Omega 3 
Take 2 daily with meal 
Super Calcium (read all food labels for calcium content) 
Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food/shake intake (using FirstString or other dotFIT protein powder regularly with a typical diet, calcium intake would probably meet calcium needs without supplementing)
If needed take 1 with a meal
FirstString
Take two (2) scoops 30-45 minutes before workout or use favorite dotFIT® bar for convenience.
Take two (2) scoops 20-30 minutes after post workout AminoFormula dose.
Use anytime throughout the day as a supplement to a meal or by itself mixed with desired ingredients to add protein/calories as needed to daily requirements.
Be sure to ingest approximately 1 gram (g) of protein per pound of lean body mass (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 4-5 times daily along with the pre/post shakes (the pre/post shakes combined generally supply 50-60 g of the daily protein requirement).
AminoFormula (AF) (workout days only)
Take 1-scoop approximately 10 minutes before workout. You may continue to consume during workout.
Take one (1) scoop immediately following workout
Or - - take both scoops in one drink and consume throughout entire workout
CreatineMonohydrate Loading & Maintenance Strategy
Maintenance: take 1-scoop twice daily to maintain stores. To help maximize creatine uptake, split doses throughout the day with meals/drinks containing protein and/or carbohydrate
Training days: take 1-dose before workout & 1 after with meals/drinks. May mix with your pre & post training formula (FirstString or AminoFormula)
Non-training days take 1-dose with AM meal/shake and 1-dose with PM meal/shake
*May substitute favorite dotFIT Nutrition High Protein Bar based on venue convenience
Meal Timings
As possible eat every 4-hours
Large pre-training/event meal 2-3Hr before training
Large post meal ~30-60min after last post workout supplement
Early morning training
Eat a large pre-training type meal the night before
Consume only the pre-workout snack/shake before training (as shown above) & follow workout day supplement schedule above
Tournament play (multiple games)
<1.5Hr break: bars and hydration/electrolyte recovery drink
1.5-2.5Hr: small pre-training-type meal
>2.5Hr: normal pre-training meal
Fluid Recommendations* 
16 oz 2Hr before activity (extra 8-16 oz 1hr before on hot days)
4-8 oz every 20 minutes during activity
20 oz for every pound of weight loss post-activity
*Use electrolyte formula (e.g., Gatorade) and water as directed


Weight/Muscle gain
For aggressive weight/muscle gain, you can gain 1lb/week (more in younger inexperienced exercisers).
In order to simultaneously increase weight/muscle and performance: males may gain up to one-half pound per week and females up to one-quarter pound per week. Beginning exercisers, children and growing teens may gain more. Additionally, if performance is not the focus, meaning size increase is the priority, you can add more calories than shown below to attempt to gain the desired weight slightly quicker. Make sure your daily diet contains at least 1gm of protein for each pound of lean body mass (LBM) divided 4-6 times a day including before and after training as shown in you supplement recommendation.
Total daily calorie intake should be moderately above current expenditure. If weight gain does not occur as described, you may add roughly 100 to 250 calories to your daily total (based on body size) consisting of equal amounts of carbohydrates and protein and moderate fat. For example, 20 g protein, 20 g carbohydrate, 10 g fat equaling 250 calories. If preferred, use your shakes or snacks to supply extra calories. Following the addition of extra calories, if after one week weight gain does not occur, repeat the above process*. All this is automatically taken care if using the your dotFIT program – otherwise follow instructions based on your weight changes.
*If body fat or overall weight increases undesirably, slightly reduce daily caloric intake or add a preferred form of aerobic exercise until you achieve your desired weight trend.



 
Neal Spruce
CEO
Office. [PHONE]
Fax.     [PHONE]


