Hi [CUSTOMER],
Agmatine sulfate (AS) was in our previous version of NO7Rage as an additive nitric oxide (NO) booster (see below from the old PDSRG). It’s an altered form of arginine. So, if your wife is looking for a NO booster based on a doctor’s recommendation, there is some evidence that AS can produce this outcome. However, studies favor the higher dose L-citrulline and Nitrosigine (as stabilized form of arginine like AS) for NO boosting, which is why our current formula uses this and we dropped the AS.  That said there may be a specific dose of AS alone that may work for her. No matter what you decide to do, please have her work with her doctor. Arterial fibrillation is not uncommon in intense/endurance exercisers so make sure you get expert advice.
Talk soon my friend!  


From the 3rd edition (previous version) of the Practitioner Dietary Supplement Reference Guide (PDSRG):
Agmatine sulfate & Nitrosigine - Better Forms of Arginine 
L-arginine is an amino acid necessary for protein synthesis. As noted above, arginine is best known for its effects on the vascular system. L-arginine is a substrate for the nitric oxide synthase (NOS) enzyme. NOS in vascular endothelial cells converts L-arginine to nitric oxide (NO), also known as endothelium-derived relaxation factor (EDRF), which causes vasodilation., But as noted above, orally ingested L-arginine is inefficient by itself in raising NO production23 leading to continuous research into creating a form of arginine that used orally may be able to raise plasma arginine to increase NO production thus avoiding injections or use of large oral doses that may cause gastric distress. Nitrosigine and agmatine sulfate are two potentially effective oral related forms of arginine that may accomplish an additive NO production effect.
Nitrosigine
Nitrosigine* is an inositol stabilized arginine silicate compound that has been shown to enhance plasma arginine and markers of nitric oxide.19, Kalman et al. using 1,500 mg/d in healthy subjects measured significantly increased plasma arginine levels in 30 minutes and remained for 3 hrs. Figure 3 showed enhanced markers for NO levels which were superior to arginine HCI and found significantly enhanced blood proteins related to vasodilation and heart health.19 

Agmatine Sulfate
Agmatine Sulfate is a biogenic amine that is derived from the amino acid L-Arginine. This occurs due to a process called decarboxylation, which is the removal of a carboxylic acid group from the amino acid. The resulting compound, a now downstream metabolite of arginine, agmatine sulfate, is often used in athletic performance supplements. The additional agmatine inhibits further conversion of arginine to agmatine thus increasing the amount of arginine converted to NO.53 Therefore, natural agmatine sulfate may serve as not only a safe additional NO fuel source that may be better than high doses of arginine,, but also by inhibiting the enzyme that breaks down NO.

From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Thursday, October 12, 2023 10:00 AM
To: [NAME] <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Agmatine Sulfate

Hey [NAME],

Have you heard anything about this supplement?

My wife has found that creatine affects the heart condition she has, and it throws off the HR and electrical activity.

Any chance agmatine sulfate is a suitable replacement for her?

All the best,
Mauro

Mauro S. Maietta
District Fitness Manager
Crunch Signature: NYC, Brooklyn, & Miami
 
CRUNC​H
[ADDRESS] South, 15th Floor
New York, NY 10016
Crunch.com • No Judgments • No Limits

