Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. The flavor (not the active formula) was altered quite a while ago and then retrofitted again, but there may be some older products out there. See below for a previous communication you may have missed and feel free to contact Berlinda (cc’d here) for more information or an exchange/refund if necessary. Mindful all the AminoFormulas are now vegan and environmentally friendly. 
Thanks again and have a weekend!

Flavor Note that was sent out ~1yr ago:
We have made our popular lemonade AminoFormula (and future other flavors) environmentally (including vegan) friendly by incorporating a different leucine source so we could get away from the duck feather extractions the industry commonly uses. The taste of the new lemonade is naturally less tart, causing some users to ask if the formula was changed. The formula is identical in active ingredients, thus efficacy, but the flavoring is slightly altered by the new leucine source and flavor package. The milder taste makes it more compatible with other flavored fluids (e.g., Gatorade, fruit juices, etc.) or powders (e.g., MuscleDefender, CreatineMonohydrate, ExtremeCreatineXXXL, NO7Rage, etc.). On the next manufacturing run (which has already happened over 10-months ago) we will tweak the lemonade flavoring towards the previous versions while keeping it environmentally friendly. Again Robin, this final retrofitted formula is now what is shipping but you may have received yours from an older lot.
From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Friday, July 21, 2023 6:45 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Contact Us


 
Name: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Phone: [PHONE]
Message: Hello, We carry your product on our BEYOND Pilates studio. I have had two of our return clients purchase the amino formula in the lemonade flavor. Have the supplement ingredients changed? They are not happy with the taste now or consistency of the powder. I wasn't sure if it is an ingredient change or possibly a bad batch. Thank you for your help! 
 

