Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. The list of manufactures and 3rd party testing information is found here and see below for more information including an FAQ regarding plant proteins.
Thanks again have a great day!


More Info
Q: A New Study of Protein Powders from Clean Label Project Finds Elevated Levels of lead, BPA, mercury, cadmium and arsenic are present in protein powder supplement products. More than 75% of plant-based protein powders had measurable levels of lead, while one contained more than 25 times the allowed regulatory limit of BPA in just one serving. Does the DotFIT Pea Protein contain High levels of heavy metals and BPA?

A: Plant proteins have been associated with natural occurring metals/minerals or environmental chemicals, such as Bisphenol A (BPA), at levels of the government’s upper limits or beyond. Since plant proteins originate in soil, it is a more complicated process to remove the unwanted minerals/chemicals or reduce them to allowable limits, so many manufacturers do an incomplete job mainly because of costs.
The dotFIT BestPlantProtein (like all dotFIT products) always test below allowable limits because it is made in an NSF Certified facility and therefore regularly audited. See below for more information.

All our manufacturers are NSF Certified facilities and follow strict GMPs, which are regularly audited. Therefore, all raw materials are certified to be at legal standards, such as measured parts per million (PPM). The BestPlantProtein that uses a pea protein source is manufactured by Reliance. If you want more information including a C of A (Certificate of Analysis), I’m connecting you with Chad (VP of Product Development) and if you would like, he can put you in direct contact with the science staff at Reliance.

All of our products must test for heavy metals and specific environmental chemicals and the manufacturers maintain records. NSF does their own heavy metal/chemical testing on top of our cGMP compliant manufacturers. Here is a link to our list of manufacturer’s and testing information – click here for this information.  Feel free to contact them for any more information.


From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Tuesday, June 13, 2023 7:54 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Contact Us


 
Name: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Phone: [PHONE]
Message: I see here on the website that the plant protein is third party tested. May I ask with who was it third party tested? I don't see anything on the container label.

