Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. Based on your restrictions, the request for your best Pre-workout supplement would be a conversation, so Berlinda (coach) is cc’d here to get more information about your age, training experience and restrictions. 
In the meantime, a few answers: creatine usage leads to an increase in intramuscular water, which is what you want to accelerate muscle protein synthesis (MPS) – i.e., creatine does not lead to unwanted water retention, and feelings of bloating are personal and not important in the big picture. As far as caffeine is concerned, there is no reason to restrict it if you do not have adverse reactions to quantified safe and effective dosages. But again, it’s all personal at that point. Therefore, I placed a program below that includes a pre-workout supplement within a more complete program designed to gain muscle and lose bodyfat, without caffeine. However, reach out to Berlinda for more questions, more information, and an efficient response to your questions.
Thanks again and have a great night.


Level-2 Sport Health, Activity Recovery, Performance & Muscle Gain Program
Click on product links for a brief product description including short video
Daily:
ActiveMV 
Take 2 daily, one with AM meal and one with PM meal
CreatineMonohydrate Loading & Maintenance* Strategy 
Mix 1 scoop (5gms) with 4-8oz of favorite fluid/shake and take 4 times daily with a protein and/or carbohydrate containing meal/drink for first 5 days. Thereafter take 1-scoop twice daily to maintain stores. To help maximize creatine uptake, split doses throughout the day with meals/drinks containing protein and/or carbohydrate
Training days: 1 dose before workout & 1 after with meals/drinks. May mix with your pre & post training formula
Non-training days take 1-dose with AM meal and 1-dose with PM meal
Daily as needed:
FirstString
Use as directed to make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of LBM (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 3-5 times daily
If exercising, use ~25-35 gm 30-40min before workout & repeat same dose immediately following exercise
Can be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired supporting contents) to shore up total daily protein needs
Super Calcium (read all food labels for calcium content) 
Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food/shake intake
Females take 1 or 2 daily with meals; if you need to take 2, take one with AM meal and the 2nd with PM meal; Males take 1 only if necessary
Super Omega 3 
Take 1-2 daily with meal if not consuming 8-16oz/wk fatty fish (take 1 if >8oz/wk but <16; 2 if ≤8oz); not necessary if consuming ≥16oz/wk unless for athletic recovery purposes
Workout days
FirstString  
Take as directed (25-35gm protein) 30-40min before workout & repeat immediately post exercise
Creatine Monohydrate
On training days, use one dose before workout and one after with meals/drinks. May mix with your pre & post training formula
*If you are under 175LBS you can cut the daily maintenance dose in half  - i.e., after loading period, take a total of 5gms daily and split as described



From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Tuesday, June 27, 2023 2:36 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Supplements
Question: Which Dotfit preworkout is the best? I'm trying to gain muscle, but lose fat, so I don't want to feel or look bloated. I hear creatine causes bloating, but my research on that is mixed. Some say it only lasts the first week or two, but others say the bloating continues as long as you take the creatine. I'm also trying to limit my caffeine intake. So I'm stuck in the middle of which preworkout to take. Thanks for your help!
 

