Hey [CUSTOMER],
This a lot to type out. So let’s get on a call so you can take notes. I placed the quick answers below in red.
Anyway, call for more information – far too much to write out here.
Talk soon buddy!

From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Monday, February 6, 2023 7:26 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: N/A
Question: Hi Neal! Couple of questions to confirm my thinking and rationale. 1) Plant based proteins and vitamin absorption or leeching. Any research suggesting that plant based proteins negatively affect nutrient absorption due to lectins and what not? I have never heard this before and a Doctor had mentioned it to me so I wanted to bullet proof myself. Neal: in all my lectures we discuss plant proteins inferiorities and how the BestPlantProtein overcomes those issues with essential amino acid fortification and a digestive enzyme blend. Further, it’s the vitamins and minerals that are not absorbed well from plant products, because plant food sources bring phytates & oxalates that bind or block minerals, reducing absorption (we always recommend vegans use the dotFIT Digestive Enzyme formula); 2) What if any benefits are there to having less than a gram of the BCAA in a cooler drink, capsule or preworkout powder etc. Is there positive affects at all with that low of dosage? Is it all just literally window dressing and dooping the unsuspecting consumer, because there are soo many out there. Neal: No benefit, simply window dressing;  #3 In figuring out calorie deficit compliance it is easy in a fat loss phase to take total fat loss x 3500 / 7 to find daily caloric deficit. How would you determine this if someone loses fat and gains muscle. Can you do it just using fat mass loss? Or is the best practice to go over all weightloss or weight gain x 3500 /7 to determine average caloric deficit? If quite certain you are in a calorie deficit and increase muscle this would indicate a surplus, even if it is training, rest and supplementation. Just wanting to find the best way to show and explain energy balance for my clients. Thank you :) Neal, the dotFIT program is the only program in the world that factors all this, which is why it also uses bodyfat measurements for those that can use it (I have the patent on the formula). It uses 3500calories for body fat and ~1700calories for muscle (average pound of skeletal muscle is 1500-1800caloeries depending on glycogen stores). The problem is there is no exact science on how much muscle a person can build because that is based on age/genetics and exercise experience (the younger and less experienced the greater the gains). Fat loss is different  -it is always predictable. Remember, that there is a deposition of calories when incorporated into tissues but you can use the calories from body fat to create the ability to deposit new calories into lean body mass (LBM) through exercise and supplementation (nutrients needed for the muscle building without unnecessary calories).
 .
