Hi [CUSTOMER],
Below is our business policy (see FAQ), not necessarily personal since we know creatine is safe for healthy youth and there is no adverse liver or kidney issues in this healthy population. The issue with someone getting blood test while on creatine, is that the creatinine levels may test slightly elevated alarming a doctor not realizing it is a normal harmless by-product of creatine supplementation and after 2 day of cessation all reads normal. All athletic doctors know this. See the blood test note below from our lectures.

Safety is Well Established25,35,132,133* Ref  Ref1,Ref2, Ref3 
30yrs successful safe use in performance, recovery time and recently health
Blood test note: spontaneous normal conversion of Cr into creatinine from diet (e.g., high in animal protein), proper use of CS and/or vigorous exercise, may lead to a creatinine level reading at or above the normal (>1.5 mg/dL), which in healthy persons, is generally a harmless temporary result
Exercisers avoid or lightly train day before, and CS users cease use 4-7days before test
No progressive effect to cause negative consequences to renal function and health in already healthy individuals with proper dosage135-140 
No negative renal effects found in any age group25,35,132,133,141
Long-term clinical therapies including in children and older adults (e.g., 10g/day for over 5yrs) have yielded no significant detectable adverse effects133 Ref  Ref1,Ref2, Ref3

FAQ
Q: Can youth athlete use creatine.
A: Proper creatine supplementation is probably safe for most healthy adolescences, but our position is to not make a recommendation until the youth elite athlete is through puberty* and then with a parent’s consent once they have consulted with a qualified professional. Below has more information on position statements by other experts. I have also placed a baseline dietary support program below that we give all youth athletes and growing and developing children ages 5-17yrs.
** Puberty usually occurs in girls between the ages of 10 and 14;boys 12 and 16.
Creatine supplementation in youth and adolescence
General rule is ≥18yrs unless a younger elite athlete is properly supervised with parent consent 
The 18yrs or older label cautions on creatine products have to do with manufacturers shielding themselves from liabilities and not based on safety reasons since science has documented CS safety in all age groups as shown discussed above. 48,49,50,[i] The latest position by the International Society of Sports Nutrition (ISSN) is the following: “If proper precautions and supervision are provided, creatine monohydrate supplementation in children and adolescent athletes is acceptable and may provide a nutritional alternative with a favorable safety profile to potentially dangerous anabolic androgenic drugs. However, we recommend that creatine supplementation only be considered for use by younger athletes who: a.) are involved in serious/competitive supervised training; b.) are consuming a well-balanced and performance enhancing diet; c.) are knowledgeable about appropriate use of creatine; and d.) do not exceed recommended dosages”.15,28 i
If you are further interested in youth and creatine supplementation you are referred to the Jagim et al. review “Safety of CS in Active Adolescents and Youth”Ref3

Youth/Athlete Growth, Development, Performance, Recovery & Health Dietary Support Plan
Keep in mind all programs we create not only help prevent injury, speed recovery, improve training/exercise induced results but also contribute to better overall health while maximizing growth and development potential. Proper nutrition makes our children and athletes better “on the field” and in the classroom.
The FirstString Protein mix/shake is a 3rd party tested and lactose free (as all our products) food product that we have the youth athletes (any active youth) we work with use for a pre and post activity shake for energy and recovery, and/or weight/muscle gain. Below is more information including incorporating FirstString into daily planning along with a multivitamin and mineral formula (MVM) to also aid recovery and fill important nutrient gaps common to youngsters. (If child has diet restrictions on animal protein, use the Best Plant Protein – Vegan product). 
Daily:  
ActiveMV (children under 12yr use Kids MV and take as directed)
Take-1 daily with meal until age 18; Then take 2 daily, one with AM meal and one with PM meal
Daily as needed:
FirstString
Use as directed to make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of LBM (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 5 times daily
Can be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired supporting contents) to shore up total daily protein and calorie needs for weight/muscle gain needs
SuperCalcium (read all food and shake labels) (using FirstString or other dotFIT protein powder regularly with other typical diet calcium intake would probably meet calcium needs without supplementing)
Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food/shake intake
Females take 1 or 2 daily with meals; if you need to take 2, take one with AM meal and the 2nd with PM meal; Males take 1 only if necessary
SuperOmega-3
Take 1-2 daily with meal if not consuming 8-16oz/wk fatty fish (take 1 if >8oz/wk but <16; 2 if ≤8oz); not necessary if consuming ≥16oz/wk unless for athletic recovery purposes
Workout days
FirstString* - use as directed to get:
25-35gm/protein 30-40min before workout & repeat same dose immediately post exercise
*May substitute favorite dotFIT Nutrition High Protein Bar based on venue convenience
Meal Timings
As possible eat every 4-hours
Large pre-training/event meal 2-3Hr before training
Large post meal ~30-60min after last post workout supplement
Early morning training
Eat a large pre-training type meal the night before
Consume only the pre-workout snack/shake before training (as shown above) & follow workout day supplement schedule above
Tournament play (multiple games)
<1.5Hr break: bars and hydration/electrolyte recovery drink
1.5-2.5Hr: small pre-training-type meal
>2.5Hr: normal pre-training meal
Fluid Recommendations* 
16 oz 2Hr before activity (extra 8-16 oz 1hr before on hot days)
4-8 oz every 20 minutes during activity
20 oz for every pound of weight loss post-activity
*Use electrolyte formula (e.g. Gatorade) and water as directed



