Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. None of the dotFIT products other than a few of the nutrition bars contain gluten. But if they are made in a facility that makes other products that contain gluten, then it must be put on the label for the people that may be highly allergic (such as in the case you mention, people with celiac disease), in case there would be a slim chance of some minute cross contamination. Again, none of the dotFIT proteins or powders contain gluten. All our dietary supplements are also gluten free and many made in facilities that are safe from cross contamination (simply read the labels). Most of the nutrition food bars are not gluten free. The peanut butter and jelly bar and the dotFIT Vegan bar are gluten free. Click here for the gluten free list in the store. And see below for more information on labeling. The labels on our products will always contain the proper information. 
Thanks again and have a great day.

FAQ
Q: I'm a trainer and was wondering about the supplements that would be safe for our clients with peanut/wheat allergies or sensitivities (or worried about cross-contamination)?  I'm trying to keep everyone safe while getting them the best supplements they can use.
A: Please read every product label carefully as all ours contain the proper warnings (see below) including gluten, shellfish, peanut, etc., for products that are made in facilities that may also make products with peanut/wheat extracts such as one of our many powder manufacturers. Most of our pills/capsules such as fish oil, MVMs, calcium, joint & Skin support, etc., are made in facilities free of potential peanut or gluten cross-contamination and therefore, safe for your recommendations/use, thus warnings are not necessary. Last thing we want is for your clients to have a reaction, so please read all labels of products they are interested in for their fitness goals. Both our BestPlantProtein and All Natural WheySmooth your client can use as their protein supplement for their fitness goals since it’s made in the proper facilities. Therefore, I put a simple baseline supplement program below, you can use with your client. You can then add as needed, making sure you read all labels as this will be published on all labels only as needed: 
“Allergen Warning: This product was produced in a facility that may also process ingredients containing milk, eggs, fish, shellfish, tree nuts, peanuts, wheat, and soybeans.
Contains: Milk, Egg, and Soy (from soy lecithin)”.
Note on AminoFormula:
The Lemonade and Blue Raspberry AminoFormula are now produced in a facility that is free of shellfish, fish, shellfish, tree nuts, peanuts and wheat/gluten. This is a recent facility change so some old labels with the original warning may still be on the product. Label printings going forward will contain only an allergen warning of:  “Contains:  Milk, Soy (from soy lecithin) and Egg.”

General Sport Health, Activity Recovery & Performance Support Program -Level-1 (Baseline)
Click on product links for a brief product description including short video
Daily:
dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender (if 50yrs or older use Over50; if female under 50, use Women’s; Males and very active females under 50 use 2-Active; children under 12yr use Kids; children 12-17yr use 1-Active). Click on videos in the store under “Overview” for brief descriptions)
Take as directed  
Daily as needed:
All Natural WheySmooth,  ( or you could also use the BestPlantProtein powder)*
Use as directed to make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of LBM (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 5 times daily
If exercising use ~25gm 30-40min before workout & repeat dose immediately post workout (see below)
Can be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired supporting contents) to shore up total daily protein needs
Super Calcium (read all food labels for calcium content including dotFIT protein shakes)
Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food/shake intake
Females take 1 or 2 daily with meals; if you need to take 2, take one with AM meal and the 2nd with PM meal; Males take 1 only if necessary
Super Omega 3 
Take 1-2 daily with meal if not consuming 8-16oz/wk fatty fish (take 1 if >8oz/wk but <16; 2 if ≤8oz)
Workout days
All Natural WheySmooth or BestPlantProtein)*
Take 1- scoop 30-40min before workout & repeat same dose immediate after
From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Tuesday, April 11, 2023 3:52 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Contact Us


 
Name: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Phone: [PHONE]
Message: Which (if any) products are safe for me to consume as someone with Celiac Disease? Are your products (even the ones labeled gluten free) manufactured in a facility that processes wheat/gluten products?
 

