Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. I combined your Q & A on this email. Quick note: calories always matter, sweets are ok moderately as you work them into your daily calorie allotment based on your goal, and frequent smaller meals are always the best route.
Read the full answers below to get started and have a great evening!
Question: I have recently started working out 4-5 times a week and I want a better diet but I’m struggling in finding a good one for me. I weigh 110 pounds and my goal is to gain a little weight / maintain so how many meals should I eat a day? Does calories matter for me? I also love eating sweets so how often should I limit eating sweets? And you want: to better my gut health because I have a lot of problems with keeping a clean and healthy gut. Therefore, read the below to get started and add the UltraProbiotic to the baseline supplement program.
Your answer:
Everything you are requesting is contained in the dotFIT program (free of charge), which will take you only a few minutes to get your answers including necessary calories based on your size, goal and activity level. I have placed a baseline dietary support program below that all our exercisers/athletes start with to make sure you recover properly from your daily activities and meet your nutrient and calorie needs. The program below including meal timing, will feed your muscle while controlling bodyfat, and also contains your pre & post workout protein/carb supplement, critical to your recovery. After using the baseline supplement program below, and you want to take your fitness goals further, you can use our supplement screening tool to get the proper recommendations. Reach out to one of our phone coaches (Berlinda is cc’d here) for more information, questions or help getting started.
Using the dotFIT Program: All your fitness needs including personalized menu plans and achieving your body composition goal is contained in the dotFIT program (if you have a trainer, you can both use it). Go to the dotFIT home page and log in (using the icon in far upper right corner) and you will come to this page: http://www.dotfit.com/new-user-register (You may just click this link for now). From there simply follow instructions creating your program and setting your goal. Once you enter your personal statistics and goal, you’ll have all you need including diet. Every week when you update your measurements/weight or bodyfat, the program will automatically tell you what to do to stay on goal.
Thanks again and have a great day! 
 Baseline Health, Recovery, Weight Control and Performance Supplement Program
Click on product links for a brief product description including short video
Daily:
dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender If 50yrs or older use Over50 unless noted below; if female under 50 use Women’s; Males and very active females (competitive training protocols) under 50 use 2-Active, with both genders continuing use till 65yrs if still training competitively at which time every person will use Over50; children under 12yr use Kids; children 12-17yr use 1-Active). Vegans use 1-Vegan
Take as directed with meals
Daily as needed:
FirstString
Use as directed to make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of LBM (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 5 times daily
Can be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired supporting contents) to shore up total daily protein needs
SuperCalcium (read all food and shake labels) (using FirstString or other dotFIT protein powder regularly with other typical diet calcium intake would probably meet calcium needs without supplementing)
Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food/shake intake
Females take 1 or 2 daily with meals; if you need to take 2, take one with AM meal and the 2nd with PM meal; Males take 1 only if necessary
SuperOmega-3
Take 1-2 daily with meal if not consuming 8-16oz/wk fatty fish (take 1 if >8oz/wk but <16; 2 if ≤8oz); not necessary if consuming ≥16oz/wk unless for athletic recovery purposes
Workout days
FirstString* - use as directed to get:
25-35gm/protein 30-40min before workout & repeat same dose immediately post exercise
*May substitute favorite dotFIT Nutrition High Protein Bar based on venue convenience
Meal Timings
As possible eat every 4-hours
Large pre-training/event meal 2-3Hr before training
Large post meal ~30-60min after last post workout supplement
Early morning training
Eat a large pre-training type meal the night before
Consume only the pre-workout snack/shake before training (as shown above) & follow workout day supplement schedule above
Tournament play (multiple games)
<1.5Hr break: bars and hydration/electrolyte recovery drink
1.5-2.5Hr: small pre-training-type meal
>2.5Hr: normal pre-training meal
Fluid Recommendations* 
16 oz 2Hr before activity (extra 8-16 oz 1hr before on hot days)
4-8 oz every 20 minutes during activity
20 oz for every pound of weight loss post-activity
*Use electrolyte formula (e.g. Gatorade) and water as directed



From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Monday, March 13, 2023 4:41 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Nutrition
Question: I just submitted my question and I forgot to mention that I want to better my gut health because I have a lot of problems with keeping a clean and healthy gut. 
 

