Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. You may be able to find protein products to your personal preferences that are comparable in price or less expensive. We, and our certified Practitioners don’t trust mass marketed powders (or other products) because of their tainted history of “protein spiking”, false claims and lawsuits. To learn more, you should probably attend one of our Practitioner webinars and therefore, I have cc’d Berlinda here to help fill you on our scheduling (or give you a link to a seminar on proteins), including the dotFIT Introduction and Future of Fitness. In the meantime, see below for more on why our products, including protein powders, are the most widely used/distributed in high school, college, Olympic and professional sports, mindful we are not a supplement company, we are a Research and Development firm for sport and fitness programming.
Thanks again and have a great week.

Why DotFIT Proteins 
dotFIT 3rd Party Tested Powders are Part of the Practitioner’s Product Line
Great taste – consistently wins the taste test
dotFIT products are Practitioner’s Product for athletes, exercisers and their families with formulas for every lifestyle
3rd party tested for ingredients and claims – NO PROTEIN SPIKING* (see below)
Formulas for “every body”, diet preference & lifestyle – not found in stores!
dotFIT is competitively priced per gram, any noted higher cost is due to 3rd party testing & other manufactures eliminating the practitioner and going direct to mass distribution where they compete on price thus compromising the products such as the use of “protein spiking”:
*The practice called “protein-spiking” is when manufacturers add cheaper non-protein ingredients, such as amino acids, to increase the nitrogen content, which then makes it appear as if the product contains more protein than actual. Class action suits have been filed against many top brands
Mass market powders don’t come with the  gym, professional staff, proper usage instructions and integration or fitness professional  - and we don’t trust them
Synergistic with all dotFIT products – no ingredient “spiking or  dusting” so no potential nutrient overages 
LeanMR and BestPlantProtein are uncontested formulas
Protein mix co-factors make it perfect for baking/cooking (e.g., pancakes, cookies, bread, muffins, etc.)
Fortified with calcium & potassium







    


From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Monday, May 22, 2023 2:25 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Supplements
Question: I have found proteins that are cheaper, taste better, have a bigger variety of flavors, and they have better macronutrient profiles...several (not all) are third party tested- what makes DotFit a better option for me? Being third party tested seems to be your biggest selling point.
 

