Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. Not sure what you are referring to, or personal definition of a “fat burner pill”. If you are referencing a category of dietary supplements that have the potential to increase the rate you burn calories, then yes, if the product is formulated properly. These products generally contain stimulants such as caffeine mixed with other herbs like capsaicin, yerba green tea extracts, etc.. The dotFIT ThermAccel (TA) product falls into this category and is used to  accelerate and ease the weight loss journey by speeding your metabolism and controlling appetite so you can stick to your necessary fat reduction diet. Further, when you reach your goal, you would discontinue use. See blow for more information and to see how you would use TA in a complete dietary support plan for bodyfat reduction.
Thanks again and have great day.

ThermAccel 
Controlled Stimulant Formula to Increase Metabolism & Daily Activities & Support Appetite
Combined ingredients can significantly increase metabolic rate and daily activities (total calorie burn) while balancing the stimulatory effects of caffeine related herbs - and suppress appetite through multiple mechanisms (4 in 1 product).
As your body loses weight, everyone comes to a plateau causing more work and/or less food to continue progress. TA will increase your daily calorie burn without forcing more work and help us keep food intake pleasant while we avoid plateaus*
You won’t need it when we get to, or close to, your goal.


ThermAccel in Baseline
Links will take you to a brief product description including video
Daily:
dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender If 50yrs or older use Over50 unless noted below; if female under 50 use Women’s; Males and very active females (competitive training protocols) under 50 use 2-Active, with both genders continuing use till 65yrs if still training competitively at which time every person will use Over50; children under 12yr use Kids; children 12-17yr use 1-Active).
Take as directed with meals
ThermAccel (TA)
Take as directed (TA 2tabs twice daily)
Daily as needed:
Favorite dotFIT protein mix 
Use as directed to make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of LBM (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 3-5 times daily
If exercising, use as directed to get ~25-35gm/protein 30-40min before workout & repeat dose immediately post workout (see below)
Can be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired supporting contents) to shore up total daily protein needs
SuperCalcium (read all food and shake labels)
Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food/shake intake
Females take 1 or 2 daily with meals; if you need to take 2, take one with AM meal and the 2nd with PM meal; Males take 1 only if necessary
SuperOmega-3 
Take 1-2 daily with meal if not consuming 8-16oz/wk fatty fish (take 1 if >8oz/wk but <16; 2 if ≤8oz); not necessary if consuming ≥16oz/wk unless for athletic recovery purposes
Workout days
dotFIT Protein of choice*. Use as directed to get:
25-35gm/protein 30-40min before workout & repeat same dose immediately following exercise
*May substitute favorite dotFIT Nutrition High Protein Bar based on venue convenience

From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Saturday, March 25, 2023 4:15 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Contact Us


 
Name: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Phone: [PHONE]
Message: do fat burners pills work
 

