Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. “Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), including ulcerative colitis (UC) and Crohn’s disease, are chronic and relapsing-remitting inflammatory disorders of the gastrointestinal tract that may develop in genetically susceptible individuals in response to unknown antigenic triggers”.
While the ingredients in of the dotFIT supplements may not be contraindicated for someone with Crohn’s Disease, Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS), IBD or sensitivities, you would want to clear any product usage with the clients attending health professional/doctor because people with medical conditions may have a unique physiology that only their doctor is familiar with. I placed a baseline supplement program below that is a standard recommendation for all our members/clients, that should be fine to start, but again, clear it with your doctor. After using the baseline supplement program below with your doctor’s permission, and you want to take your fitness goals further, you can use our supplement screening tool to get the proper recommendations. The only added note here would be if your client prefers an all-natural protein (because does not want artificial sweeteners because of IBD), they could use the BestPlantProtein (all vegan) or the All Natural WheySmooth. Moreover, CreatineMonohydrate and the AminoFormula have no known contraindications in Crohn’s or IBD/IBS but check with the doctor and there is some evidence that creatine supplementation may help attenuate symptoms of IBD. Further, creatine supplementation has been suggested to be potentially useful adjuvant therapeutic intervention for patients with IBD. 
Thanks again and have a great weekend.



Baseline Dietary Support for all Sport & Fitness Goals
(Click on product links for a brief product description including short video)
Daily:
dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender If 50yrs or older use Over50 unless noted below; if female under 50 use Women’s; Males and very active females (competitive training protocols) under 50 use 2-Active, with both genders continuing use till 65yrs if still training competitively at which time every person will use Over50; children under 12yr use Kids; children 12-17yr use 1-Active).
Take as directed with meals
Daily as needed:
WheySmooth* (or other favorite dotFIT protein mix) or All Natural WheySmooth, or BestPlantProtein
Use as directed to make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of LBM (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 3-5 times daily
If exercising use as directed to get ~25-35gm/protein 30-40min before workout & repeat dose immediately post workout (see below)
Can be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired supporting contents) to shore up total daily protein needs
Super Calcium (read all food labels for calcium content including dotFIT protein shakes)
Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food/shake intake
Females take 1 or 2 daily with meals; if you need to take 2, take one with AM meal and the 2nd with PM meal; Males take 1 only if necessary
Super Omega 3 
Take 1-2 daily with meal if not consuming 8-16oz/wk fatty fish (take 1 if >8oz/wk but <16; 2 if ≤8oz); not necessary if consuming ≥16oz/wk unless for athletic recovery purposes
Workout days
WheySmooth* or other favorite dotFIT protein mix
Use as directed to get ~25-35gm/protein 30-40min before workout & repeat dose immediately post workout  
From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Monday, August 21, 2023 9:44 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Supplements
Question: Hi there! I am a Personal Trainer at Cowboys Fit in Frisco, TX. (: I have a client who suffers from Crohn's Disease (IBD). I was wondering which supplements would be well suited for her to take. I'm wanting her to start taking a MV, amino formula, possibly creatine, and a protein powder. She is currently on prescription medication for IBD and she is very cautious of taking any new supplements - due to bad experiences in the past with other brands that were not great products. Any help would be great! Feel free to let me know if you have any questions for me. Thank you so much! 
 

