Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. Yes, you can take the LeanMR as directed, and Weight Loss & Liver Support (WLLS) since there are no stimulants in either. See below for proper use.
Thanks again and have a great day.

Daily:
dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender If 50yrs or older use Over50 unless noted below; if female under 50 use Women’s; Males and very active females (competitive training protocols) under 50 use 2-Active, with both genders continuing use till 65yrs if still training competitively at which time every person will use Over50; All vegans use VeganMV 

Weight Loss & Liver Support
Take 3 daily as directed. 1- before each of 3 meals or evenly split throughout the day

LeanMR (protein and fiber rich meal replacement formula) 
Use as directed within daily meal planning (see below) and to make sure you get ~1 gram of protein per pound of lean body mass (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources divided 4-5 times daily depending on preference
Can also be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired ingredients) to shore up total daily protein needs.

Meal Replacement/Substitute Integration
You may also click here for a simple ready to go solution including sample menus with proper calories, foods and LeanMR meal replacement diet integration
Weight Loss Phase:
Meal Replacements (MRs) generally supply two small meals a day and allow freedom of choice from traditional foods for the remaining allotted foods/calories. Therefore, use as two small meals within any calorie restricted meal plan of 4-5 meals since frequent meals are often better for bodyfat/weight reduction than fewer larger ones especially as it relates to satiety, preservation of lean body mass (LBM) and energy levels. LeanMR recipes are available here
Maintenance Phase: 
Continue to consume 3-5 small meals daily within caloric allotment that includes 1-2 MRs for convenience and to help ensure overall diet quality while reducing food costs. A wide variety of healthy recipes including meal replacement recipes are available here



From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Tuesday, December 5, 2023 8:48 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Contact Us


 
Name: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Phone: [PHONE]
Message: If someone is taking calcium blocker for high blood pressure, could they take leanMR, the whey protein, and/or the weight loss pills without it affected their medication?
 

