Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us and congrats on your weight loss so far. It sounds like you have your diet under control, but you are correct about including dietary support through supplementation if you want to add or maintain muscle, or tone while losing bodyfat, otherwise you just lose weight – i.e., lose both lean body mass (LBM) and bodyfat leaving you with no tone and almost certain weight regain. Therefore, I placed your baseline supplement program below that will be necessary to feed your muscles while starving bodyfat, which includes the number one weight control solution, a meal replacement program integrated into your daily meal plans that also helps reduce grocery bills. After using the baseline supplement program below, and you want to take your fitness goals further, you can use our supplement screening tool to get the proper recommendations or reach out to one of our phone coaches for more information or questions. You can reach back out now to one of our phone coaches for more information or any questions regarding your journey or using the program below (Berlinda is cc’d here). 
Thanks again and have a great day!

Meal Replacement Menu planning integration
Below is your LeanMR Meal Replacement Program, which is the most popular for weight/bodyfat loss and maintenance. As shown below, the complete program is the most successful, simple and common dietary support and weight loss meal substitute/replacement program that you can incorporate into your daily meal plans. Following this simple program, will help control appetite, ease your journey and speed results while supporting health and lean body mass during weight loss, and most importantly support weight maintenance. You can click here https://www.dotfit.com/MRweightlossplans for a simple ready to go solution including sample menus with proper calories, foods and LeanMR meal replacement diet integration. 
 Weight Loss/Maintenance & Health Supplement Program
Click on links for brief product descriptions including short video
Daily:
dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender and follow label directions. If 50yrs or older use Over50 unless noted below; if female under 50 use Women’s; Males and very active females (competitive training protocols) under 50 use 2-Active, with both genders continuing use till 65yrs if still training competitively at which time every person will use Over50; children under 12yr use Kids; children 12-17yr use 1-Active. Vegans use 1-Vegan
. LeanMR other favorite dotFIT protein mix
Use as directed within daily meal planning (see below) and to make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of lean body mass (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources divided 4-5 times daily
Can also be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired supporting contents) to shore up total daily protein needs
As needed
Super Calcium 
Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food intake (read all food labels for calcium content including protein mixes)
Females take 1 or 2 daily with meals; if you need to take 2, take one with AM meal and the 2nd with PM meal; Males take 1 only if necessary
SuperOmega 3 
Take 1-2 daily with meal if not consuming 8-16oz/wk fatty fish (take 1 if >8oz/wk but <16; 2 if ≤8oz); not necessary if consuming ≥16oz/wk unless for athletic recovery purposes, then increase as directed

Meal Replacement Integration 
Weight loss phase: 
Meal Replacements (MRs) generally supply two small meals a day and allow freedom of choice from traditional foods for the remaining allotted foods/calories. Therefore, use as two small meals within any calorie restricted meal plan of 4-5 meals since it's been shown that frequent small meals are better for weight loss than fewer larger ones especially as it relates to satiety, preservation of lean body mass (LBM) and energy levels
Get LeanMR recipes here: https://www.dotfit.com/category-cid-1868.html 
Maintenance phase 
Continue to consume 4-5 small meals daily within caloric allotment that include 2 MRs for convenience and to help ensure overall diet quality while reducing food costs
You can go to our recipe section on the dotFIT website to get recipes with meal preparation instructions including meal replacement recipes. 

From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Monday, February 27, 2023 8:49 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Supplements
Question: I'm 5' 3" 259lb woman (blk). I'm on the journey of getting rid of the weight but I also want to build muscle/strength and tone. I don't know what supplements I need or if I even need them. Over the last few months I shed 45lbs through strict eating (no calorie counting, i instead did portion control, lean meats, fruit & veggies), but now I want to incorporate exercise, I don't want to become mush. Any advice/ recommendations? 
 

