Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. I’m going to connect you with Berlinda and Chad to help you properly navigate the program. The menus can be altered as desired by you based on your preferences then they can be saved. But let Chad or Berinda give you a quick tour. I also placed some menu FAQs below.

FAQs and tutorial links 
Q: Do the menus ever change?
A: The Reference menus written by our dieticians for each caloric goal does not change until the user changes it as they desire. They are all designed to be individually customized since everyone eats different. However, they can save all their customized foods and menus to use anytime they like. Below are 2 FAQs you may fine helpful. Here is a link to logging food and menu customization food logging tutorial.

Q: Is there a way to get new reference menus each week for my clients or are they always going to be the same?
A: Reference menus will remain the same (we continue to add new ones or replace them overtime) as they must be signed off on by our dieticians because that allows you to use the program in your scope of practice. And everyone is always going to change something to their liking, which is why they are 100% customizable, simple to execute and can be saved. The reference menus are accurately designed for macronutrient structures, health, calories, etc., matched to the clients goals. Alterations should only be done by you and the person consuming the foods. Here is the link for a complete program tutorial that will take you through all aspects of using the dotFIT program including menu creation and customization. Additionally, your client can enter any custom food they like, or any food not in the database. We also have complete tutorials on how to enter “custom foods”. Here is a link to the food logging tutorial with the part entering a custom food/drink) starting at ~1min and 30seconds into the video. 
Menus in the program and ungated menus for the public.
The menus in the dotFIT program can all be customized and saved for individual clients and therefore the reference menus are simply static examples. The ungated menus on the site (click here) for anyone to view are simply examples to the public. But again, once you are in the program, all menus can be changed as desired and kept accurate for the goal. See below for related FAQs and reach back out for a live tour for more info, especially if you are one of our certified trainers.

Below are the sample menus in the dotFIT program with each having all different calorie targets based on your input/goal and can all be customized as desired.





From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Thursday, April 18, 2024 11:26 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Diets
Question: Is there a way to see menus for several days, so I can ensure I shop appropriately? Thanks.
 

