Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. The dotFIT program is designed to do all you are requesting including assembling the individualized supplement program. I’m guessing you are part of the dotFIT Elite or a licensed club, so you have full access to the complete program for free. You can also use the supplement screener on the dotFIT homepage (or click the link here) to get the proper supplementation for the person and goal.  And lastly, I placed a dietary support bodyfat reduction bundle, that is the most common recommendation by health professionals, for the goals you mention including building or maintaining lean body mass (LBM). Reach out to Berlinda if you have any questions regarding your access to all these tools.
Thanks again and have a great weekend.

Stimulating Weight/fat Loss Bundle for Fast Results & Daily Recovery with Meal Replacement/Substitute Integration Program
Click on product links for a brief product description including short video
Daily:
dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender If 50yrs or older use Over50 unless 100% vegan, then use VeganMV 
Take as directed with meals
ThermAccel (TA)
Take 1-2 tabs in the morning, and 1-2 in afternoon at least 5-hours before bed; do not mix with other stimulants
Discontinue when goal is achieved
LeanMR (protein and fiber rich meal replacement formula) 
Use as directed within daily meal planning (see below) and to make sure you get ~1 gram of protein per pound of lean body mass (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources divided 4-5 times daily depending on preference
Can also be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired ingredients) to shore up total daily protein needs
Meal Replacement/Substitute Integration 
You may also click here for a simple ready to go solution including sample menus with proper calories, foods and LeanMR meal replacement diet integration
Weight Loss Phase:
Meal Replacements (MRs) generally supply two small meals a day and allow freedom of choice from traditional foods for the remaining allotted foods/calories. Therefore, use as two small meals within any calorie restricted meal plan of 4-5 meals since frequent meals are often better for bodyfat/weight reduction than fewer larger ones especially as it relates to satiety, preservation of lean body mass (LBM) and energy levels. LeanMR recipes are available here
Maintenance Phase 
Continue to consume 4-5 small meals daily within caloric allotment that includes 2 MRs for convenience and to help ensure overall diet quality while reducing food costs. A wide variety of healthy recipes including meal replacement recipes are available here

From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Saturday, April 8, 2023 5:57 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Contact Us


 
Name: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Phone: [PHONE]
Message: I'm trying to set up a weight loss program for older individuals over 50. I'm a little confused on which supplements to put together for weight loss and maintain muscle.
 

