H Tara,
Thanks for contacting us. Our labels are all correct, meaning if a product was made in a facility that makes other products that may contain peanuts, dairy, etc., it will be on the label. Many of our products are made in facilities that do not make product with peanuts. So make sure you read the labels. See below for an FAQ and connecting you with Chad (VP of Product development) for more information.
Thanks again and reach out to Chad for more information.

FAQ
Q: I'm a trainer and was wondering about the supplements that would be safe for our clients with peanut/wheat allergies or sensitivities (or worried about cross-contamination)?  I'm trying to keep everyone safe while getting them the best supplements they can use.
A: Please read every product label carefully as all ours contain the proper warnings (see below) including gluten, shellfish, dairy, peanut, etc., for products that are made in facilities that may also make products with peanut/wheat extracts/dairy such as one of our many powder manufacturers. Most of our pills/capsules such as fish oil, MVMs, calcium, joint support, etc., are made in facilities free of potential peanut, egg, shellfish, dairy or gluten cross-contamination and therefore, safe for your recommendations/use, thus warnings are not necessary. Last thing we want is for your clients to have a reaction, so please read all labels of products they are interested in for their fitness goals. Both our BestPlantProtein powder and All Natural WheySmooth your client can use as their protein supplement for their fitness goals since it’s made in the proper facilities. Therefore, I put a simple baseline supplement program below, you can use with your client. You can then add as needed, making sure you read all labels as this will be published on all labels only as needed: 
“Allergen Warning: This product was produced in a facility that may also process ingredients containing milk, eggs, fish, shellfish, tree nuts, peanuts, wheat, and soybeans.
Contains: Milk, Egg, and Soy (from soy lecithin)”

General Sport Health, Activity Recovery & Performance Support Program -Level-1 (Baseline)
Click on product links for a brief product description including short video
Daily:
dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender. If 50yrs or older use Over50 unless noted below; if female under 50 use Women’s; Males and very active females (competitive training protocols) under 50 use 2-Active, with both genders continuing use till 65yrs if still training competitively at which time every person will use Over50; children under 12yr use Kids; children 12-17yr use 1-Active);’ pure vegans use VeganMV
Take as directed  
Daily as needed:
All Natural WheySmooth,  ( or you could also use the BestPlantProtein powder)*
Use as directed to make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of LBM (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 5 times daily
If exercising use ~25gm 30-40min before workout & repeat dose immediately post workout (see below)
Can be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired supporting contents) to shore up total daily protein needs
Super Calcium (read all food labels for calcium content including dotFIT protein shakes)
Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food/shake intake
Females take 1 or 2 daily with meals; if you need to take 2, take one with AM meal and the 2nd with PM meal; Males take 1 only if necessary
Workout days
All Natural WheySmooth or BestPlantProtein)*
Take 1- scoop 30-40min before workout & repeat same dose immediate after



From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Sunday, August 20, 2023 8:42 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: N/A
Question: Hi are all of your protein and supplements manufactured in a facility with peanut products? I was reading the nutrition labels and one does have a peanut and the other one doesn't. My son has a peanut allergy so we avoid the may contain and manufactured in a facility with peanuts. Thank you. 
 

