Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us.

The client is improperly informed about supplemental amounts of vitamins and minerals for active individuals that support long and short-term health, especially the primary antioxidant vitamins C and E (the tolerable upper limit [UL] of vitamin E is 1000mgs/d, the formula has 161mg). Not sure where she sees chromium 286%? – it’s only 100%). Further, none of the ingredients are at or over the known ULs. The complete rational for each ingredient is found in the  Practitioner's Dietary Supplement Reference Guide (PDSRG) that is used for certification and practitioner education (not consumer facing). All references are from peer review published research and the formula NSF Certified for sport (meaning it also meets all safety regulations). The product is formulated by the experts at dotFIT (See below). Feel free to send the information links to your customer. The content will be a good education for the inquisitive person. Have your customer click on the appropriate links that explain the design of the Multivitamin and Mineral Formula (MVM) and then can click on links to the article that sets the foundation found in the PDSRG document. The non-vitamin antioxidant (lycopene, lutein, zeaxanthin, CoQ10, Alph lipoic acid) ingredient peer review supporting research is found here. She also is free to contact our VP of Nutrition services and Corporate Dietician, Kat Barefield (cc’d here), after reading and processing all the peer review research and still has questions. There is also an abbreviated PDSRG version of the Alln1 SuperBlendTM (attached here) taken from the full deep-dive PDSRG, mindful that the complete rational is in the full PDSRG and where this person should go first and fully study.
Thanks again and have a great Sunday!
3rd Party Tested & NSF Certified for Sport Dietary Supplements
dotFIT is Evidence Based* 24/7 Support with Practitioner Products Only
dotFIT Worldwide is R&D company that delivers holistic evidence-based programming, products and support to over 1500 Sport/Fitness & Health Facilities, and over 40,000 sport & fitness professionals
 
#1 Recommended and Used Dietary Supplements in the Sport & Fitness Channels including college and professional sports
If you are looking for health, performance and fitness support with Practitioner Products only (not found in consumer channels and sold through professionals) and want full product disclosure (rationale for use, mechanisms of action, safety, contraindications, etc.) you can click the link to the dotFIT Practitioner's Dietary Supplement Reference Guide (PDSRG) that is used by all our sport, fitness and health professionals and published by our Scientific Advisory Board and R&D team. The first section describes everything around criteria, recommendation, testing and manufacturing processes. All products are 3rd party tested and specific dotFIT health and performance products are also NSF Certified for Sport (NSFCS). Peer review quality documents for individual products are found in their respective categories. dotFIT is a research and development company for sport, fitness and health professionals, therefore, all programs/products must pass our Evidence-Based Advisory and Legal Committee Rules including 3rd party testing procedures such as Health Canada, NSF and mandatory audited GMPs. Individual products can be found in respective sections. PDSRG (used for formulation safety and efficacy rationale, certification and education purposes, not consumer facing and located in the certified practitioner console).
*Evidence based: sport and fitness/weight control solutions (or clinical decisions) that represent the best available evidence and supported by the consensus of their respective scientific community

Practitioner Product Status by Rules
Efficacy – dosages & forms match clinical trials (peer review documents published in PDSRG)
Safety – shown in trials and history, screening & ingredient synergy
Purity & Potency – tested from start to finish
Nutrient Delivery – right place, right time
Truth in labeling – legal facts based on #1 & prove it with 3rd party testing
Practitioner delivered – Personalized Practitioner Delivery (legitimizes the recommendation): synergistic solution based on body statistics, sport, goals, experience, medical history & progress
Remove the doubt with the Practitioner resource
Click here Sports (3:23); all consumers (6min)
Takeaway
You need both: 1) documentation that doses/forms match positive clinical trials found in the practitioner dietary supplement reference guide (PDSRG) i.e.,  submitted documentation
 and 2) 3rd party testing to make sure its in the product at that dosage (Ref)    
From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Saturday, August 5, 2023 10:20 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Contact Us


 
Name: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Phone: [PHONE]
Message: Hi! We have a client at Enfield Healthtrax who recently bought the Allin1 and has the below question. Would someone be able to answer this for us? Thanks, Caroline @ Enfield Healthtrax ... why is there so much chromium (286% of recommended daily value) in the ALLN1 Super Blend being offered and recommended by the Healthtrax Team. The more I look at the ingredients in this supplement, the more concerns I have about taking it. The risks might outweigh the benefits. Specifically: Why does the ALLN1 Super Blend consist of more than 100% of the daily recommended values for so many of the ingredients in it? A few examples from the label on the container: Excess chromium (286%) can lead to liver and kidney damage and possible insulin sensitivity. Excess Vitamin E (1073%) increases risk of prostate cancer. Excess Vitamin C (711%) increases risk of kidney stones. I would be curious about the manufacturers reasoning for going over 100% of the daily recommended value for so many of the ingredients and also your thoughts about the product. 
 

