Hi [CUSTOMER], 
Thanks for contacting us. The only one that is important to take ~30min before a meal for it to function optimally, would be CarbRepel. The others are fine to take anytime, but dosages should be evenly distributed throughout the day. See below for more.
Thanks again and have a great day!

Q: Do I have to take ThermAccel  before a meal?
A: It is not necessary to use ThermAccel before meals for it to be effective. Just take one dose in the morning and the second before mid or late-afternoon.

Q: A client asked me if she should still take CarbRepel before a meal if not eating carbs at that particular meal. Also, what if you forget to take it 30 minutes before a meal? Can you take it right before or should you wait till later? 
A: No, you would not use CR if not consuming carbs, or very little carbs such as only vegetables or a little fruit. Taking CR as it was used in the clinical trials is ideal (~30min before a carbohydrate containing meal), but it will still work if you take it at/before, or very close, to the meal.

Q: A client asked me if she should still take Weight Loss and Liver Support in the morning if she's not going to eat breakfast. Also, what if you forget to take it 30 minutes before a meal? Can you take it right before or should you wait till later? 
A: The bottom line is that the Weight Loss and Liver Support should be consumed 3 times daily and separated as evenly as possible to help maintain the desired levels of ingredients. Taking it before a meal is one way of spreading it out and getting help in appetite support within 30min. But it’s not necessary once you start using the product 3 times daily regularly, as proper blood levels will be maintained. And yes, have your client take it in the morning even if not consuming breakfast.

Q: Do you recommend CR (or WLLS) and ThermAccel used together if I want to boost weight/fat loss? 
A: Yes, you can use CarbRepel with ThermAccel (TA), or any of the dotFIT weight loss products such as Weight Loss and Liver Support together, and it is commonly done with people needing extra help, as each product works to support appetite and metabolism through different and unique mechanisms. Simply follow the directions on each product label. The links will take you to a brief product description including short video.


From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Tuesday, May 16, 2023 2:01 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Supplements
Question: Is there any other way supplements that require "30 minutes Before a meal" can be taken? Is it vital to the success of the supplement
