Triple Agonist Retatrutide Hits New Weight-Loss Highs (medscape.com) 
SAN DIEGO — New designer molecules that target weight loss via multiple mechanisms continue to raise the bar of how many pounds people with overweight or obesity can lose.
Retatrutide (Eli Lilly), an investigational agent that combines agonism to three key hormones that influence eating and metabolism into a single molecule, safely produced weight loss at levels never seen before in a pair of phase 2 studies that together randomized more than 600 people with overweight or obesity, with or without type 2 diabetes.
Among 338 randomized people with overweight or obesity and no type 2 diabetes, 48 weeks of treatment with retatrutide at a 12-mg dose given by weekly subcutaneous injection (the highest dose tested) safely produced an average 24% drop from baseline bodyweight.
Among 281 randomized people with overweight or obesity and type 2 diabetes, the same dose of retatrutide produced a nearly 17% cut in weight from baseline after 36 weeks of treatment.
Never Before Seen Weight Loss

Dr Ania M. Jastreboff
"I have never seen weight loss at this level" after nearly 1 year of treatment, said Ania M. Jastreboff, MD, PhD, who led the obesity study, during a press briefing here at the American Diabetes Association (ADA) 83rd Scientific Sessions.
The average weight loss by study participants taking high-dose retatrutide in the two studies "is really impressive, way beyond my wildest dreams," commented Carel le Roux, MBChB, PhD, an obesity and diabetes researcher at University College Dublin, Ireland, who was not involved with the retatrutide studies.
And Robert Gabbay, MD, chief scientific and medical officer of the ADA, called the results "stunning," and added, "we are now witnessing the first triple-hormone combination being highly effective for not only weight loss but liver disease and diabetes."
A prespecified subgroup analysis of the obesity study showed that at both 8-mg and 12-mg weekly doses, 24 weeks of retatrutide produced complete resolution of excess liver fat (hepatic steatosis) in about 80% of the people eligible for the analysis (those with at least 10% of their liver volume as fat at study entry); that figure increased to about 90% of people on these doses after 48 weeks, Lee M. Kaplan, MD, reported during a separate presentation at the meeting.
Adding Glucagon Agonism Ups Liver-Fat Clearance
"When you add glucagon activity," one of the three agonist actions of retatrutide, "liver-fat clearance goes up tremendously," said Kaplan, who is director of the Obesity, Metabolism and Nutrition Institute at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston

New Oral GLP-1 Agonist for Obesity, Type 2 Diabetes (medscape.com)
SAN DIEGO – Orforglipron, Eli Lilly's investigational oral daily nonpeptide glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) agonist that can be taken with or without food, appears comparable with other injectable and oral agents in the class for treating obesity and type 2 diabetes, suggest two new phase 2 studies.
Currently approved GLP-1 agonists for type 2 diabetes and/or obesity are peptide-based and given by subcutaneous injection or orally. No oral GLP-1 agonists are currently approved for obesity, and only one, oral semaglutide (Rybelsus, Novo Nordisk), is approved for type 2 diabetes.
Oral semaglutide is formulated with an ingredient that helps protect it from degradation and enhances gastric absorption. To maximize absorption and efficacy, patients are advised to take it in the fasting state and not to eat or drink anything for at least 30 minutes after. Nevertheless, the bioavailability of orally ingested semaglutide is only 1% or less.
Orforglipron, in contrast, is a small molecule that isn't a peptide, so it isn't degraded in the gastrointestinal tract, Juan Frias, MD, lead author of the phase 2 trial in type 2 diabetes, told Medscape Medical News.
"It's a chemical, a small molecule that also acts on the GLP-1 receptor, but because it's not a protein it's not degraded by enzymes. It's like any other pill. Earlier pharmacokinetic studies have shown that taking it with or without food doesn't make a difference," said Frias, who is principal investigator at Velocity Clinical Research, Westlake, California.  
The results of the phase 2 trial of orforglipron in the treatment of adults with overweight or obesity were presented here June 23 at the American Diabetes Association (ADA) 83rd Scientific Sessions, and the findings were simultaneously published in the New England Journal of Medicine.
The type 2 diabetes data were also presented, as a poster, at the ADA meeting, and simultaneously published in The Lancet.
Asked to comment, moderator of the session during which the obesity study was presented, Elisabetta Patorno, MD, DrPH, told Medscape Medical News: "I think the findings are exciting. It is a formulation that patients might be able to tolerate much more, in terms of not having these very strict restrictions on how to take [oral semaglutide]. It's very cumbersome. They have to be fasting. They have to wait to eat."
Of course, orforglipron must go through much further testing, noted Patorno, associate professor of medicine at Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts. "The results that were shown were promising. We'll see more as new phases are moving forward in phase 3 and so forth." 
Beyond Dosing Convenience: Possibility for Improved Access
The advantages of this novel nonpeptide GLP-1 agonist drug class — others are in earlier stages of development — could extend beyond just more convenient dosing, Sean Wharton, MD, PharmD, lead author of the obesity study, told Medscape Medical News.

