Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. We have placed the dotFIT Vegan baseline dietary support program below that should get your B12 levels where they need to since the VeganMV has a daily dose 15µg of B12 in the proper form (see label below). After 90 days of use, including maintaining your nutritional yeast formula*, have your levels rechecked. The baseline program also includes your supplemental protein BestPlantProtein and Digestive Enzymes to help release nutrients from plant sources.
Thanks again and have a great week!

*Because vegans avoid all animal-derived products, they may rely on vitamin B-12 fortified foods, such as certain breakfast cereals and nutritional yeast. Plant foods do not produce vitamin B-12, so it is vital that vegans find alternative sources of vitamin B12 to establish and maintain best health.

More Info
B12 and other important nutrients such as iron, zinc, iodine, etc., are often insufficient in the pure vegan diet.
Among other functions, B12 (cobalamin) is essential to nervous system function and DNA synthesis. Regular insufficient intake leads to anemia and irreversible neurological damage and veganism leads to deficiencies without supplementation. Plant based sources of cobalamin are almost non-existent.14 Humans consume cobalamin from animal products, as animals manufacture pre-formed cobalamin in their rumens (intestines) and consumption transfers a usable form of B12 to the consumer. Like food sources of B12, supplement sources are poorly absorbed. Absorption is limited by the presence of intrinsic factor (glycoprotein) as it needs to bind with ingested B12 to facilitate its absorption into the body. In fact, a dietary supplement of 500 µg may only end up delivering 10 µg into the body. The RDA for B12 is 2.4µg/d but it’s often recommended that vegans may need up to 6 µg/d through supplements in order to achieve adequate levels.4, The dotFIT daily VeganMV contains 15µg.



From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Monday, September 4, 2023 8:11 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Supplements
Question: What B-12 supplement do you recommend? Following a vegan diet, what are some B-12 rich foods to add to my diet? I am currently adding nutritional yeast (1 - 2 tablespoons) to my salads and vegetable stir-fries 3 - 4 days/week. I just received my annual lab test and my B-12 levels were below 500. Thank you!
 

