Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. We are not perfectly clear what you are requesting here. Therefore, I’m connecting you with Berlinda to clarify. In the meantime, if you are looking for menus and a complete program for weight/bodyfat loss, see below.
Thanks again and stay tuned for Berlinda.

Menu planning for bodyfat/weight reduction
Using the dotFIT Program (no charge): All your fitness needs including menu plans and achieving your body composition goal is contained in the dotFIT program (if you have a trainer, you can both use it). Go to the dotFIT home page and log in (using the icon in far upper right corner) and you will come to this page: http://www.dotfit.com/new-user-register (You may just click this link for now). From there simply follow instructions creating your program and setting your goal. Once you enter your personal statistics and goal, you’ll have all you need including diet. Every week when you update your measurements/weight or bodyfat, the program will automatically tell you what to do to stay on goal including using the dietary support program below.

OR
You can simply use the LeanMR Meal Replacement Program, which is the most popular for weight/bodyfat loss and maintenance. As shown below, the complete program is the most successful, simple and common dietary support and weight loss meal substitute/replacement program that you can incorporate into your daily meal plans. Following this simple program, will help control appetite, ease your journey and speed results while supporting health and lean body mass during weight loss, and most importantly support weight maintenance. You can click here https://www.dotfit.com/MRweightlossplans for a simple ready to go solution including sample menus with proper calories, foods and LeanMR meal replacement diet integration. 

 Weight/bodyfat Loss, Muscle Support & Health Program
Click on links for brief product descriptions including short video
Daily:
dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender. If 50yrs or older use Over50 unless noted below; if female under 50 use Women’s; Males and very active females (competitive training protocols) under 50 use 2-Active, with both genders continuing use till 65yrs if still training competitively at which time every person will use Over50; children under 12yr use Kids; children 12-17yr use 1-Active);’ pure vegans use VeganMV
Take as directed with meals
LeanMR other favorite dotFIT protein mix
Use as directed within daily meal planning (see below) and to make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of lean body mass (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources divided 4-5 times daily
Can also be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired supporting contents) to shore up total daily protein needs
As needed
Super Calcium 
Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food intake (read all food labels for calcium content including protein mixes)
Females take 1 or 2 daily with meals; if you need to take 2, take one with AM meal and the 2nd with PM meal; Males take 1 only if necessary
SuperOmega 3 
Take 1-2 daily with meal if not consuming 8-16oz/wk fatty fish (take 1 if >8oz/wk but <16; 2 if ≤8oz); not necessary if consuming ≥16oz/wk unless for athletic recovery purposes, then increase as directed

Meal Replacement Integration 
Weight loss phase: 
Meal Replacements (MRs) generally supply two small meals a day and allow freedom of choice from traditional foods for the remaining allotted foods/calories. Therefore, use as two small meals within any calorie restricted meal plan of 4-5 meals since it's been shown that frequent small meals are better for weight loss than fewer larger ones especially as it relates to satiety, preservation of lean body mass (LBM) and energy levels
Get LeanMR recipes here: https://www.dotfit.com/category-cid-1868.html 
Maintenance phase 
Continue to consume 4-5 small meals daily within caloric allotment that include 2 MRs for convenience and to help ensure overall diet quality while reducing food costs
You can go to our recipe section on the dotFIT website to get recipes with meal preparation instructions including meal replacement recipes.




The LeanMR Meal Replacement Program is the most popular for weight/bodyfat loss and maintenance. As shown below, the complete program is the most successful, simple and common dietary support and weight loss meal substitute/replacement program that you can incorporate into your daily meal plans. Following this simple program, will help control appetite, ease your journey and speed results while supporting health and lean body mass during weight/fat loss, and most importantly support weight maintenance. You can click here https://www.dotfit.com/MRweightlossplans for a simple ready to go solution including sample menus with proper calories, foods and LeanMR meal replacement diet integration.


From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Friday, October 27, 2023 3:29 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Weight Loss
Question: what meal shoulf should follow a weight loss goal
 

