Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. If you have high blood pressure you would not want to use ThermAccel since it contains stimulants. You can use Weight Loss & Liver Support (WLLS) if you  are seeking assistance in bodyfat/weight reduction. WLLS helps to mobilize unhealthy liver fat that causes energy metabolism problems and does not contain stimulants. Below is brief product summary and how it is commonly used in a baseline dietary support program that includes the menu integration of Meal Replacements/substitutes. Whatever you choose to use, make sure you clear it with your doctor.
Thanks again and have a great week! 
WLLS Purpose
Non-stimulant bodyfat loss aid to support liver health to improve overall metabolism leading to proper energy substrate (dietary fats/CHO/proteins) usage/burning, and enhanced appetite management, thus easing, and accelerating the desired body composition journey.
When the body regularly stores fat, some is deposited in organs such as the liver, compromising its overall functioning, especially the liver’s ability manage the usage and burning of carbs/sugar and fat.
WLLS’s natural ingredients (such as green tea extract, milk thistle and choline) target mobilizing liver (belly) fat to improve sugar and overall fat metabolism/burning, also includes specialized antioxidants such as NAC and EGCG to reduce weight gain’s related oxidative stress – i.e., break the negative chain reaction of unhealthy weight gain. 
The synergistic and unique contribution of African Mango can improve lipid profiles and support appetite control to make the individualized fitness journey easier and faster.
Especially important for very overweight or obese people (females >32% body fat and males >22%) to support liver health to begin a healthy bodyfat reduction journey.
May be discontinued when the goal is achieved. 
Level-1 for Fast Results & Daily Recovery with Meal Replacement/Substitute Integration Program
Click on product links for a brief product description including short video
Daily:
dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender and follow label directions. If 50yrs or older use Over50 unless noted below; if female under 50 use Women’s; Males and very active females (competitive training protocols) under 50 use 2-Active, with both genders continuing use till 65yrs if still training competitively at which time every person will use Over50; children under 12yr use Kids; children 12-17yr use 1-Active. Vegans use 1-Vegan
Weight Loss & Liver Support
Take 3 daily as directed. 1- before each of 3 meals or evenly split throughout the day
LeanMR (protein and fiber rich meal replacement formula) 
Use as directed within daily meal planning (see below) and to make sure you get ~1 gram of protein per pound of lean body mass (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources divided 4-5 times daily depending on preference
Can also be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired ingredients) to shore up total daily protein needs. See below for proper menu integration.
Meal Replacement/Substitute Integration 
You may also click here for a simple ready to go solution including sample menus with proper calories, foods and LeanMR meal replacement diet integration
Weight Loss Phase:
Meal Replacements (MRs) generally supply two small meals a day and allow freedom of choice from traditional foods for the remaining allotted foods/calories. Therefore, use as two small meals within any calorie restricted meal plan of 4-5 meals since frequent meals are often better for bodyfat/weight reduction than fewer larger ones especially as it relates to satiety, preservation of lean body mass (LBM) and energy levels. LeanMR recipes are available here
Maintenance Phase 
Continue to consume 4-5 small meals daily within caloric allotment that includes 2 MRs for convenience and to help ensure overall diet quality while reducing food costs. A wide variety of healthy recipes including meal replacement recipes are available here

From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Tuesday, March 7, 2023 2:23 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Weight Loss
Question: I would like to try ThermAccel, I am currently on 4 different drugs for pain and or blood pressure / cholesterol. are you aware of any medications this product interacts with?
 

