Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. There are no known or reported negative side effects from proper use Weight Loss & Liver Support (WLLS). Below is from the Practitioner Dietary Supplement Reference Guide (PDSRG).
Thanks again and have a great day.

Goal
This product aims to deliver isolated non-caloric nutrition in amounts uncommon in human diets that can support proper liver health and metabolism and subsequent body fat reduction through multiple mechanisms. The Weight Loss and Liver Support (WLLS) ingredient combination works to mobilize ectopic fat deposits in organs and attenuate related oxidative stress and inflammation to improve overall metabolism, especially the usage of dietary fats and carbohydrates to support efficient diet-induced body fat reduction and appetite control. By delivering clinically effective doses of African Mango (Irvingia gabonensis) to control appetite; choline, milk thistle (silymarin), N-acetylcysteine (NAC), and epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG) from green tea to mobilize unhealthful liver fat and subsequently attenuating runaway oxidation/inflammation, WLLS is designed to speed and ease the weight/bodyfat reduction journey while improving overall health. Users may discontinue use once the body composition goal is achieved unless instructed differently by a qualified health practitioner.

Rationale
Most adults’ body fat rises throughout their life, often causing fatty deposits in liver cells, disturbing its ability to process incoming carbohydrates, protein, and fat, initiating a chain reaction starting with disturbed energy usage and oxidative stress that causes multiple negative health outcomes including the progression of unhealthy body composition.

Typical Use
Non-stimulant body fat loss aid
Recommended for overweight people to support a complete weight loss program, including related liver health.
Take one tablet three times daily, generally 30 minutes before meals, with at least eight fl. oz of water, or spread three tablets evenly throughout your awake hours*
Discontinue after reaching the body fat reduction goal or when the lifestyle is under control to continue to the desired body composition goal without assistance.
* The bottom line is that WLLS should be consumed three times daily and separated as evenly as possible to help maintain the desired levels of ingredients regardless of total daily meals or frequency. Taking it before a meal is one way of spreading it out and getting extra help in appetite support within 30 minutes. But it’s unnecessary once you start using the product three times daily, as proper blood levels will be maintained to achieve the desired results.

Safety
Adverse events, precautions, or contraindications with any ingredients in WLLS are rare or unknown in the general population when supplementing the diet properly, as described above. The section below is a high-level summary related to specific subpopulations. Qualified practitioners needing more information related to these categories, including drug interactions, are referred to the TRC Natural Medicine Data Base (TRCNMD), which is continually updated with emerging evidence-based data.
From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Saturday, September 23, 2023 9:51 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Contact Us


 
Name: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Phone: [PHONE]
Message: What are the side affects to the weight loss and liver support tablets?
 

