Typical Use
Non-stimulant bodyfat-loss aid
Recommended for overweight people to support a complete weight loss program including related liver health
Take one tablet, three times daily, generally 30 minutes before meals with at least 8 fl. oz of water, or spread 3 tablets evenly throughout your awake hours*
Discontinue after reaching fat loss goal
* The bottom line is that WLLS should be consumed 3 times daily and separated as evenly as possible to help maintain the desired levels of ingredients regardless of total daily meals or frequency. Taking it before a meal is one way of spreading it out and getting extra help in appetite support within 30min. But it’s not necessary once you start using the product 3 times daily regularly, as proper blood levels will be maintained to achieve desired results.


Hi [NAME],
Thanks for contacting us. The bottom line with Weight Loss & Liver Support (WLLS) is that one dose (pill) needs to be taken 3 times daily spread as evenly as possible throughout the day and this will maintain the ingredients effectiveness. Taking it before meals is more a reminder and probably slightly better for the African Mango appetite support. Again, just make sure to take 1-dose 3 times daily spread as evenly as possible throughout your awake hours and you will be fine. See below for a related FAQ  
Thanks again and have a great day!

Q: A client asked me if she should still take WLLS in the morning if she's not going to eat breakfast. Also, what if you forget to take it 30 minutes before a meal? Can you take it right before or should you wait till later? 
A: The bottom line is that the Weight Loss & Liver Support should be consumed 3 times daily and separated as evenly as possible to help maintain the desired levels of ingredients. Taking it before a meal is one way of spreading it out and getting help in appetite support within 30min. But it’s not necessary once you start using the product 3 times daily regularly, as proper blood levels will be maintained. And yes, have your client take it in the  morning even if not consuming breakfast.
From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Friday, February 3, 2023 12:09 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Supplements
Question: I am currently taking the Lean pack and I’m on phase 1 Liver Support. Once I take my pill how long past the 30 minute mark will the benefits not be effective Also, how much time in between is it ok to take the next pill Ex: my bfast is at 9:30. I take my pill at 9 My lunch is around 12:30/1 can I take the following pill at 12/12:30? And my dinner if I choose to do 3x a day is later in the evening like 6
 

