Hi [CUSTOMER],
I will put something together this weekend regarding building your supplement program around training intensity that will give you the best chance of still being able to build muscle naturally.
At some point you will have to come to grips with aging and building muscle. Once you have approached the "age experience" intersection* of training, the only thing you can do is slow the inevitable decline by doing all the right things (e.g., diet, supplements, training, etc.). To continue to add muscle at this intersection you would have to add hormones, which is not something you want to do because of the future health ramifications. And all you will get is a few more years of building and a very good chance of injury.

*Age experience intersection is a place where the body will naturally plateau in progress and varies for all sports depending on the primary needed function/skill. In other words physical performance (or size) will no longer improve. As an example: a person competing in tennis (game of reflexes combined with quickness) most of their lives will reach this intersection in the late 20s or early 30s. A person just starting tennis at age 30 can get better for the next 10 years (so maybe reach the point at age 40-45) but of course will never be as good as the professional player that came to their plateau at the other persons starting age.
In the case of weight lifting, if you were bodybuilder and trained intensely from ages 15 thru 40, you will definitely not put on more muscle naturally. But if you started lifting at age 40, you could add muscle for the next few years and then maintain it for many more  - BUT you would never be as big as if you had started in your youth, however you could be bigger at age 60 than the shrinking bodybuilder by age 60 because of overuse in the latter.
Anyway, that's the "age experience intersection" explanation. Hey, just think, competitive gymnasts come to this point in their teens!
On a personal note, you'll never know the pain I went through after retiring. Watching yourself shrink is tough, but tougher was losing the strength. I just channeled all my passion and thoughts into the businesses and that took the sting out.
I will send you something soon my friend.

