Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us and sorry for any inconvenience. We do not sell the Recovery & Build (BCAAs) product anymore. Because we have the AminoFormula, which has the free form BCAAs plus more, we now have a very low request or need for strictly BCAAs. See below for more information.
Thanks again and have a great day.

More information
We will not be carrying Recover & Build (R&B--BCAAs) anymore for financial and waste purposes as the demand has slowly dropped because the AminoFormula replaces it for the vast majority of our market. The AminoFormula contains not only high dose BCAAs but the other 5 amino acids that make leucine, isoleucine, and valine work better for recovery and building muscle. The reason we continued to make the R&B was for endurance athletes (see Q&A below), but we don’ sell enough before we have to destroy the leftover stock based on expiration, mindful we have to order large amounts at a time to be able to have a manufacturer make it cost effectively. See below for more info on the difference between R&B and AminoFormula. So unless you are an ultra-endurance competitor, seeking an additional anti-fatigue supplement, you would use the AminoFormula for greater recovery and muscle protein synthesis results. 

Question: What is the difference between taking 8 capsules of the BCAAs or the drink mix AminoFormula (AF)*?
A: If you are using AminoFormula, you are getting all the BCAAs you would need for recovery including muscle protein synthesis (MPS). Otherwise, endurance athletes will use Recover & Build (isolated BCAAs) for delaying fatigue. I placed a related FAQ below. (if you are using AF for recovery/MPS purposes, no need for Recover & Build/BCAAs).
FAQ
Q: What is the difference between Recover & Build formula (branched-chain amino acids [BCAA]) and AminoFormula? 
A: AminoFormula and Recover & Build (BCAAs: leucine, isoleucine and valine) are 2 amino acid formulas that are used based on a person’s goal. The Recover & Build formula contains only the BCAAs and is primarily used by endurance-type athletes to delay fatigue, improve reaction time, reduce pain perception and maintain vigilance. Others, also use it for exercise recovery, especially during calorie restriction (dieting) since isolated BCAAs are also needed for this purpose, but again, the recovery function is inferior to the result using the AminoFormula.
The AminoFormula contains the BCAAs in a high dose and the 5 other amino acids that collectively activate MPS (eliminating any limiting factor from BCAAs only in stimulating MPS) and therefore, is our most popular exercise recovery formula because its superior to the BCAA alone as it relates to exercise recovery and triggering MPS. Most serious athletes/exercisers we work with use this product. It comes in multiple flavors, and all are vegan friendly. All products have brief description and short video to help explain their purpose and usage. Once you find the product here, click the product you are researching for the respective description and video. All products are 3rd party tested and NSF-CS



 

From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Monday, May 25, 2026 6:00 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Contact Us


 
Name: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Phone: [PHONE]
Message: Do you not sell the recover&build tablets anymore? 
 

