Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. Both iron and zinc are contained in all Practitioner complete multivitamin and mineral formulas (MVM) (exceptions are for some people over 50years where extra iron can be a problem) because they are 2 of the 20 known potentially under-consumed nutrients in US diets and because our Practitioner MVMs are in a controlled release matrix, all ingredients make it to their target tissues. Further, many our Practitioners read their client’s biomarkers before and after supplementation and find all iron and zinc dependent enzymes/proteins are improved validating efficacy. All due respect, you have probably misinterpreted the studies or simply taken them out of context. There would a lot of dying humans if they could not absorb all essential nutrition regardless of how they are consumed since that is the way humans consume foods/mixed meals. And both zinc and iron are essential to life. The human body developed an amazing digestive tract that can present the nutrients from food and supplements in the proper forms to be absorbed into the body to maintain life.
If you would like to learn more about designing the best possible MVM formula that complement the western diets I have included a section (links below) from the Practitioner Dietary Supplement Reference Guide (PDSRG) that our Practitioner’s including pharmacists and dieticians use for training and education.
Thanks again and have a great day.

The daily amounts of vitamins and minerals currently known as the safe and optimal range, are captured the peer review referenced Practitioner's Dietary Supplement Reference Guide (PDSRG) and contained within those documented amounts in the dotFIT formulas - - design of the Multivitamin and Mineral Formula (MVM).


From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Thursday, April 30, 2026 3:09 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Supplements
Question: I see that in your multivitamins, zinc and iron are both present. However, studies show that they should not be taken together because it greatly reduces the absorption of both. Is there a reason they are combined in this case?
 

