Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. The dotFIT program contains the diet information you need to get started and stay on track with your caloric intake/menu planning, etc., as you pursue your body composition/fitness goals. Assuming you are not a member of one of our licensed facilities, I’m connecting you here with Mark Rowland (certified counselor and cc’d here) so he can get you pointed in the right direction including proper access to the tools you need. Below is the baseline dietary support program for all active people that want to remain active that forms the foundation for health, daily recovery and exercise-induced gains. After using the baseline supplement program, and you want to take your fitness goals further, you can use our supplement screening tool to get the proper recommendations or simply contact Mark.
Additionally:
Commit to strength train no less than 2-3times weekly (mentioned you have access to a trainer). 
Track your daily steps to eventually reach a daily average goal of 7-10K. Take as much time as necessary to reach this goal – i.e., if you are at 5K now, try to add an extra 1K every couple of weeks and make sure that a portion of your steps are done briskly. If you are doing regular higher intensity cardiovascular activity than walking, it’s not necessary to perform any of your daily steps at a brisk pace.
Thanks again and have a great day.

Baseline Dietary Support for General Health, Recovery, Weight Control & Performance Supplement Program
Click on product links for a brief product description including short video
Daily:
dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender. If 50yrs or older use Over50 unless noted below; if female under 50 use Women’s; Males and very active females (competitive training protocols) under 50 use 2-Active, with both genders continuing use till 65yrs if still training competitively at which time every person will use Over50; children under 12yr use Kids; children 12-17yr use 1-Active). Or Alln1 SuperBlend™ 
Take as directed with meals
WheySmooth or other favorite dotFIT protein mix (based on caloric allotment for goal)
Use as directed to make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of LBM (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 3-5 times daily
Can be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired supporting contents) to shore up total daily protein needs
As needed:
Super Calcium (read all food labels for calcium content including dotFIT protein shakes)*
Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food/shake intake
Females take 1 or 2 daily with meals; if you need to take 2, take one with AM meal and the 2nd with PM meal; Males take 1 only if necessary
Super Omega 3 
Take 1-2 daily with meal if not consuming 8-16oz/wk fatty fish (take 1 if >8oz/wk but <16; 2 if ≤8oz); not necessary if consuming ≥16oz/wk unless for athletic recovery purposes, then increase as directed
*All food labels including Protein Powders must contain calcium levels by serving so always check
Workout Days:
WheySmooth or other favorite dotFIT protein mix
Take 1scoop ~30-40 minutes before workout
Take 1-scoop immediately following workout


From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Sunday, April 26, 2026 7:12 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Muscle Gain
Question: I'm a former athlete now in a desk job. Want to know the best nutrition for myself as I feel I am declining. I'm 41
 

