Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. Congrats on your fitness journey so far. And yes, you are correct, filling gaps caused by the changes in appetite /loses in lean body mass (LBM) resulting from the use of GLP-1 RAs, is generally a complete multivitamin and mineral formula (MVM), protein, omega-3s and fiber.
We have a recommended GLP-1 bundle that takes the recommendation to the next health and fitness level by including the other often missing micronutrients. The bundle has the Alln1 SuperBlend™ and LeanMeal protein formula (or select another favorite dotFIT protein powder). Otherwise, choose the ActiveMV (which is in the Alln1 SuperBlend™) with the protein and Super Omega-3 fish oil. See below for using the products, and product descriptions including the slide at the bottom from our Practitioner lectures. Any questions and Berlinda is cc’d here to help.
Thanks again and have a great day.

Level-1 for Fast Results & Daily Recovery with Meal Replacement/Substitute Integration Program
Click on product links for a brief product description including short video
Daily:
Alln1 SuperBlendTM  (SB) includes a Full days’ recommendation for: vitamins, minerals antioxidants, probiotics, prebiotics, ashwagandha, turmeric & mushroom blend, along with 6gms of fiber and 2 full servings of vegetables
Take as directed: 1-full serving daily (2-scoops); 1-scoop in AM and 1-scoop in PM; visit recipe section to incorporate as desired into daily lifestyle* (see below for popular recipe)
Or at a minimum, take the ActiveMV for your MVMs needs (this is contained in the SB)
LeanMR (protein and fiber rich meal replacement formula) 
Use as directed within daily meal planning (see below) and to make sure you get ~1 gram of protein per pound of lean body mass (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources divided 4-5 times daily depending on preference
Can also be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired ingredients) to shore up total daily protein needs
Meal Replacement/Substitute Integration
You may also click here for a simple ready to go solution including sample menus with proper calories, foods and LeanMR meal replacement diet integration
Weight Loss Phase:
Meal Replacements (MRs) generally supply two small meals a day and allow freedom of choice from traditional foods for the remaining allotted foods/calories. Therefore, use as two small meals within any calorie restricted meal plan of 4-5 meals since frequent meals are often better for bodyfat/weight reduction than fewer larger ones especially as it relates to satiety, preservation of lean body mass (LBM) and energy levels. LeanMR recipes are available here
Maintenance Phase 
Continue to consume 4-5 small meals daily within caloric allotment that includes 2 MRs for convenience and to help ensure overall diet quality while reducing food costs. A wide variety of healthy recipes including meal replacement recipes are available here





 
Neal Spruce

From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Tuesday, February 3, 2026 6:02 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Supplements
Question: 46 year old male currently 5'8" and 218lbs after lots of years tracking food, working out, and trying personal trainers. I have made the jump to GLP-1 meds to see if that helps keep the progress up. In the past it was always the lack or speed or the results despite hitting recommended targets. I am concentrating on high protien foods but feel I could benefit from supplements to help fill the gaps. Any recommendations? The standard seems to be good multivitamin and omega 3. 
 

