California Prop 65* 
NSF (and Eurofins) has certified our products to meet federal and global standards for all natural earthly metals including lead or you would not see the NSF on the label. Proposition 65 applies to California only*, requiring a warning on anything that might contain lead, which is found everywhere including in your workplace. Therefore, be mindful that there is always some lead (and other natural metals found in the earth) including in the air you breathe in natural products, but there is set limit that you cannot exceed, and the testing confirms that. Again, all our products are far below the federal and global limits, which is verified by NSF-CS and Eurofins, our 3rd and 4th party testing. Again, the warning on the label is there by law for California only, including posted in all California grocery stores, coffee shops, etc.  and does NOT mean there is an unsafe level of anything. On a side note, 1svg of natural spinach has 10times the allowed lead in any dietary supplement. In other words, most all plant foods will always be above the allowed lead content for dietary supplements. Just make sure your supplements are 3rd party tested like all of ours and you will always be safe.
*The California Prop 65 lead standards are unrealistic in natural foods and disputed globally, because almost all foods contain amounts higher than allowed lead/metals (.5mcg/svg) including 1svg natural spinach (10Xs higher), 1-cup of coffee, etc. This is because the level is set 10-50 times lower than other global (e.g., FDA [2.2mcg/d children;12.5 adults], NSF, WHO, etc.) limits for lead (5-30mcg). Based on the unrealistic levels, almost all plant foods would be prohibited
More information
From Counsil of Responsible Nutrition: 
“Prop 65 levels are not meant to represent a safety threshold or a cut-off for unsafe levels, but rather, a standard that triggers a label notification only in the state of California to inform consumers which products contain metals—which are naturally present in most natural sources of food and water. To put this into context, a 1/2 cup of cooked spinach would require a Prop 65 warning label, if they were required for wholefoods, which they are not”
See below from our website:

https://www.dotfit.com/prop65

|  |
|  |

