Hi [CUSTOMER],
The quick answer is:
There is no scientific evidence that micronized creatine is more effective than standard creatine monohydrate. It’s the same molecule but smaller, meaning it may be less gritty when you mix it but absolutely no safety or efficacy benefit. Here are some simple notes:
Regular creatine monohydrate remains the gold standard. It has been used in thousands of studies over more than 30 years and consistently improves strength, power, muscle mass, recovery, and high-intensity exercise performance. 
Micronized creatine is still creatine monohydrate. The only difference is that the particles have been milled into much smaller sizes, so it mixes easily in fluids and may be less gritty when ingesting. 
What it does NOT do: 
Increase absorption into muscle; Increase muscle creatine stores; Produce greater gains in strength or muscle; Require a lower dose. 
Water soluble or micronized creatine
Takeaway:
Our professionals deliver the only proven, science-backed creatine monohydrate and would not offer an alternative source because of the lack of evidence to date that any form is better, including solubility. Creatine does not have to totally dissolve in water (or fluid mix) before you ingest it. Your digestive tract takes care of preparing any creatine (from your food, or supplements) for proper absorption once it enters the body regardless of its solubility or size. 
More info 
The sales numbers or marketing claims for “water soluble creatine” or micronized creatine, although the form means nothing related to efficacy, is simply a product of the hype around creatine and influencer money to separate a brand from the norm, – nothing to do with results – just marketing spin.
Creatine supplementation does not have to be “water soluble” or micronized to be safe and effective. In fact, all powdered creatine products are water-dispersible, but they are not all highly water-soluble or need to be. Most powdered creatine monohydrate (CrM) products are considered moderately soluble in water but proven superior to all other creatine forms including the advertised “water soluble” or micronized creatine products. Creatine supplementation does not need to be “water soluble” or micronized for the body to use it. The body (GI tract) dissolves the ingested creatine and puts into solution to absorb it.
The evidence-based scientific position including The International Society of Sports Nutrition (ISSN) position stand on creatine states:
Creatine Monohydrate is the most extensively studied and clinically effective form. Claims that other forms deliver greater uptake or are superior are currently unfounded – basically a marketing spin to help justify their increase in costs – in other words the other forms (“water soluble”/micronized) are more expensive with no efficacy advantage
Bottom line
If both products are pure creatine monohydrate like dotFIT’s NSF CS product, 5 g/day of either product will produce essentially the same physiological results.
That remains the consensus among organizations such as the International Society of Sports Nutrition (ISSN) and the vast majority of creatine researchers. If new evidence emerges showing a true performance advantage, it would represent a significant change from the current scientific consensus.


