
Hi [CUSTOMER],
We started our partnership with NEXGEN in 2023 as we tested it specific gyms within our larger gym chain partners so we could evolve it, including NEXGEN promoting our GLP-1 nutrition support packages, which is also when I started lecturing on GLP-1s for all our licensees. The latest evolution is live on our website and is also part of the “New Members Goals: How GLP-1s Are Impacting Fitness (Strength Care is the New Healthcare)” lecture I have been doing all year. The next one will be for the Masterclass on the 20th of August, if you have not already participated in one this year.

They do not offer a certification, and truthfully, it is not necessary for our trainers because I have been lecturing on the drugs and our specific, non-clinical role for all trainers since 2023 and maintain all updates for those interested. I clearly define the trainer’s role (where it stops and starts) in applying the nutrition component, whether they give the clients the packages in the gym or through the our special website pages. With full the same rev-share. The drugs are also available through our partnership, but mindful the drugs are a clinical play, so it is all 3rd party through the NEXGEN doctor group (shielding the gyms and staff) where they also promote our nutrition packages, which are linked back the participating gym.
Only the initial gyms were getting a rev-share for sales of the drugs because NEXGEN must by law collect the money. That model is going to be different going forward now that they are promoting our packages as necessities.
Bottom line it will keep evolving and we will keep you update on the webinars. Below are a couple of slides from the current webinar that we will do again on the 20th.


 



From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Friday, July 24, 2026 10:49 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: N/A
Question: Hi Neal - I have a few questions: 1.) when did dotFit partner with Nexgen? 2.) do they offer a certification program to learn about the GLP-1's & Peptides? 3.) do they offer any type of commission for recommending/selling their products? Thanks, [NAME]
 

