Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. A protein shake before and/or after a workout is commonly recommended to improve recovery including muscle protein synthesis (MPS). Most importantly, especially during bodyfat/weight reduction is to make sure you are consuming at least 1gm of protein per pound of lean body mass (LBM) split throughout the day with some in each meal. Getting ~20-25gm before a workout and 20-25 after gives you 40-50gms towards your goal, making it simple to hit the daily goal while improving recovery. See the baseline dietary support program we give all exercisers that want to maximize health and exercise results and remain active. If you were only to use a shake before or after, the after shake would the most important. After using the baseline supplement program, and you want to take your fitness goals further, you can use our supplement screening tool to get the proper recommendations.
Thanks again and have a great day.

Baseline Dietary Support for General Health, Recovery, Weight Control & Performance Supplement Program
Click on product links for a brief product description including short video
Daily:
dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender. If 50yrs or older use Over50 unless noted below; if female under 50 use Women’s; Males and very active females (competitive training protocols) under 50 use 2-Active, with both genders continuing use till 65yrs if still training competitively at which time every person will use Over50; children under 12yr use Kids; children 12-17yr use 1-Active). Or Alln1 SuperBlend™ 
Take as directed with meals
WheySmooth or other favorite dotFIT protein mix (based on caloric allotment for goal)
Use as directed to make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of LBM (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 3-5 times daily
Can be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired supporting contents) to shore up total daily protein needs
As needed:
Super Calcium (read all food labels for calcium content including dotFIT protein shakes)*
Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food/shake intake
Females take 1 or 2 daily with meals; if you need to take 2, take one with AM meal and the 2nd with PM meal; Males take 1 only if necessary
Super Omega 3 
Take 1-2 daily with meal if not consuming 8-16oz/wk fatty fish (take 1 if >8oz/wk but <16; 2 if ≤8oz); not necessary if consuming ≥16oz/wk unless for athletic recovery purposes, then increase as directed
*All food labels including Protein Powders must contain calcium levels by serving so always check
Workout Days:
WheySmooth or other favorite dotFIT protein mix
Take 1scoop ~30-40 minutes before workout
Take 1-scoop immediately following workout 

From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Saturday, May 9, 2026 6:23 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Weight Loss
Question: If I am on a journey to lose weight, do I need to have a protein smoothie/shake before I workout or after? I always eat a banana in the morning before heading to workout.
 

