Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. Unfortunately, you cannot spot reduce bodyfat (see note below). You can only continue to lose bodyfat through maintaining an average calorie deficit. Moreover, as we age we begin to store fat in different areas such as moving from the lower body to the upper body (genic and hormone change driven). The good news is that you can lose bodyfat anywhere eventually. Where it leaves from first or last is not our choice. Most importantly, you will need to support your muscle (LBM) while losing body fat including from the belly area. Assuming you are not a member of one of our licensed facilities (if you are they can set you up properly on the dotFIT program), I’m connecting you with Mark Rowland (cc’d here) one our certified counselors to help you choose your best and healthiest route to your goals based on what can fit into your lifestyle.
Following the right dotFIT program that is set up so you burn more calories than you consume, including the supplement program below, will get rid of the belly fat, support LBM and give you the energy you need while pursuing the goal because you will be feeding your muscle while starving bodyfat. And yes, you will eventually lose the belly fat. 
Thanks again and good luck on your fitness journey. We will be with you all the way!


Spot reducing note
Losing body fat anywhere on the body requires consuming less calories than you burn regardless of the type of diet you consume. The goal is to find a diet that you’re comfortable with so you can stick with it until you reach your goal knowing there is no such thing as “spot reducing” – i.e. fat leaves the body from wherever it’s genetically programed to lose it, and sometimes the places you want it to leave from first does not happen till later – but it will happen if you stay in the calorie deficit. You do this by eating less, moving more or a combination of the two until you reach the goal. While aging can alter where you lose and store fat, because of hormone shifts, the formula for losing bodyfat anywhere on the body is the same, including eventually leaving from any place first, second or third.
Building or Maintain Muscle While Losing Body fat and The dotFIT Program
Building/maintaining muscle while losing body fat, depending on age and training experience (younger and less experience the easier and faster the gains), is not often easy to accomplish because the formula requires a few components that you need to adhere to: 1) daily menu plan that has the correct calories, foods including protein quantity matched to the body composition goal; 2) dietary supplement program to feed muscle while starving fat – i.e. deliver high nutrition with little to no calories – meaning you will need at least a multivitamin and mineral (MVM) and extra protein to help recover and maintain structural and functional integrity (when calories are limited to reduce body fat, you also limit the nutrients that would otherwise be contained in those calories); 3) regular unaccustomed resistance exercise. Additionally, we placed the minimal supplement program we use for exercisers to healthily speed recovery and results while supporting health and fat loss. 
Note: Make sure you consume daily between all food and protein shake sources close to 1gram of protein for every pound of lean body mass (LBM) or body weight (if not overweight) divided 4-5 times daily including using your protein shake before and after the workouts. See below. And As you progress, you can add additional supplementation if you continue to want to lose more body fat and/or gain more muscle by regularly updating your program with your weight/body fat measurements (it will automatically update the diet and supplements) - or use our supplement screener tool: supplement screening tool.

General Health, Recovery, Weight Control/bodyfat Reduction/Toning and Performance Supplement Program
Click on product links for a brief product description including short video
Daily:
dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender. If 50yrs or older use Over50 unless noted below; if female under 50 use Women’s; Males and very active females (competitive training protocols) under 50 use 2-Active, with both genders continuing use till 65yrs if still training competitively at which time every person will use Over50; children under 12yr use Kids; children 12-17yr use 1-Active). Or Alln1 SuperBlend™ 
Take as directed with meals
WheySmooth or other favorite dotFIT protein mix (based on caloric allotment for goal)
Use as directed to make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of LBM (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 3-5 times daily
Can be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired supporting contents) to shore up total daily protein needs
As needed:
Super Calcium (read all food labels for calcium content including dotFIT protein shakes)*
Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food/shake intake
Females take 1 or 2 daily with meals; if you need to take 2, take one with AM meal and the 2nd with PM meal; Males take 1 only if necessary
Super Omega 3 
Take 1-2 daily with meal if not consuming 8-16oz/wk fatty fish (take 1 if >8oz/wk but <16; 2 if ≤8oz); not necessary if consuming ≥16oz/wk unless for athletic recovery purposes, then increase as directed
*All food labels including Protein Powders must contain calcium levels by serving so always check
Workout Days:
WheySmooth or other favorite dotFIT protein mix
Take 1scoop ~30-40 minutes before workout
Take 1-scoop immediately following workout


From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Friday, January 16, 2026 2:31 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Weight Loss
Question: I’m fairly happy with my body as i carry most of my weight in my lower body, however i have some tummy fat i would like to get rid of and i am more than willing to loose a bit of my lower extremity to do so. I just don’t know the best way to go about it. I take fish oil, pre and post biotics, and i do apple cider vinegar gummies. I just cant seem to get the weight off, my diet consists of protein, carbs, veggies. I work 8-5 5 days a week and go to the gym 3 days a week. How can i help myself loose tummy fat?
 

