Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. Sorry about your confusion regarding sucralose. Of course, there is nothing harmful about sucralose in proper amounts or we would not use it. In fact, sucralose is one of the seven FDA approved non-nutritional sweeteners (also no calories). That said, because of expanding media, there will always be confusion and financial bias around any ingredient/food product and therefore, we make an unflavored, thus unsweetened CreatineMonohydrate and other all natural sweetened or unflavored alternatives, such as protein powders, etc., for people’s personal preferences. Mindful we are an evidence-based R & D company for fitness programming and products. Meaning our products are Practitioner Products sold through professional channels,  not available in the mass market. And why we are the largest provider of 3rd party tested nutrition programs and products in the sport and fitness channels including collegiate and professional sports.
Below is some peer review referenced information regarding sweeteners.
Thanks again and have great day.

FAQ:
Q: Why artificial sweeteners? Not included in All Natural WheySmooth or BestPlantProtein
A: Better and healthier than added sugar and FDA Approved (Ref. Sweetener docs here.) 4,2022meta, ref4 
Added sugars are a leading cause of disease and why the government warns & sets limitsRef2 
Better taste = continued use to improve fitness results –no downside in “normal health” users
Higher nutrition per calorie/sweetness to support desired body comp
Sucralose tested best of sweeteners & sucrose in weight management Ref
Supports blood sugar (approved for diabetics)
Decrease risk of adverse reactions common with “natural” sweeteners (honey, stevia, lactose, fruit sugar residues, etc.)27,28 
Supports weight control vs contributor2, 2022meta, and CV health
Approved for children1
*The FDA established an acceptable daily intake (ADI) for sucralose of 5 milligrams per kilogram (Europe is 7 and Canada 11mg/kg) of body weight (mg/kg) per day)*. The ADI represents an amount 100 times less than the quantity of sucralose found to be safe in research studies. For a person weighing 150 pounds (68 kg), US ADI equates to 340 mg of sucralose—the amount found in nine cans of diet soda or more than 28 individual packets of sucralose—consumed, on average, every day over a lifetime.
1Policy Statement FROM THE AMERICAN ACADEMY OF PEDIATRICS. The Use of Nonnutritive Sweeteners in Children. PEDIATRICS Volume 144, number 5, November 2019:e20192765.
2Higgins et al. A randomized controlled trial contrasting the effects of 4 low-calorie sweeteners and sucrose on body weight in adults with overweight or obesity. Am J Clin Nutr 2019;109:1288–1301
FYI: Because of its safety, EFSA decided to expand the sweetener’s use in foods for special medical purposes for children.



From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Wednesday, July 29, 2026 3:59 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Supplements
Question: Hello, I use your creatine, pre-workout and protein product products. All these products contain sucralose. Does your company have any plans on removing this ingredient due to its negative effects? I really enjoy your products, but I might have to move away from them if the sucralose ingredient isn’t going to be removed. Please let me know.
 

