Hi [CUSTOMER],
Depends what you mean by candy (ingredients), how your unique physiology responds to “small amounts” of whatever your candy formula is and what and how long before ingest the “candy” you had a full meal (or pre-event meal). Normally a small amount of sugar is ok to trickle in, which is what endurance athletes do with Gatorade, since it contains strategic amounts of sugars. But responses can vary based on individual physiology and eating times. Therefore, test out what you are thinking before actually use it for competition.


 
From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Tuesday, April 21, 2026 6:46 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Supplements
Question: Your thoughts on consuming small amounts of candy prior to CrossFit workout as a “preworkout”?
 Thanks for the fast response!

I workout each morning (6am) in a fasted state. My last meal usually would have been dinner the previous evening. When referring to candy, I was thinking a fun size pack of gummy bears or sour patch kids on my way to the gym . Full disclosure, I am only asking this because I have seen this pop up on the internet. I know, that is the worst place to get advice. 

Can’t that you and Zane enough for the great information you guys are pumping out. I thoroughly enjoy watching the videos and have found so many great pieces of advice from you.

If you’re training in a fasted state, any quick burning fuel on the way to the gym can be beneficial as long as you don’t crash during the workout. You may want to take a scoop and a half of AminoFormula, mix it with something like Gatorade and start drinking it before the workout and continue to drink during. That way your body begins to reverse the catabolic state it has been in since 4hours after your last meal, allowing greater energy and faster recovery.


Thanks for the fast response!

I workout each morning (6am) in a fasted state. My last meal usually would have been dinner the previous evening. When referring to candy, I was thinking a fun size pack of gummy bears or sour patch kids on my way to the gym . Full disclosure, I am only asking this because I have seen this pop up on the internet. I know, that is the worst place to get advice. 

Can’t that you and Zane enough for the great information you guys are pumping out. I thoroughly enjoy watching the videos and have found so many great pieces of advice from you.


