Hey [CUSTOMER],
Glad things are progressing. Everyone that struggles with controlling weight has the same problem of cutting the late night sweet-tooth regardless of how full they are after a meal. It’s only motivated people (based on having to hit a body composition target, such as bodybuilders in contest dieting, actors/models for photo shoots or simply people that have to make a living with their body looking a certain way), that control that craving -because they have to.
Here are your natural options (1-3); 4 is the last resort but highly successful:
Combine Weight Loss and Liver Support (WLLS) with ThermAccel and take daily as directed
Use the Alln1 SuperBlend™ instead of your current multivitamin and mineral formula (and any other supplements it replaces) and take 1-scoop in AM and 1 in PM to cut the late night appetite
The most popular way of incorporating Alln1 SuperBlend™ into lifestyle is 1-scoop combined with 1svg of your favorite vanilla protein, fruit, ice and water. Take other dose as desired (often taken with water/favorite fluid and ice in evening to help control appetite (may add ½-1 scoop AminoFormula if needed).
Incorporate bodybuilder tricks at night
Brush your teeth after your last meal (sends a signal to the brain you’re done).
Chew sugarless gum as your desert
Drink a diet soda for desert
Mix AminoFormula with a low calorie beverage and drink it for your desert.
Save your last calories for a low calorie desert such as low calorie frozen yogurt or a protein bar
When all else fails, use the new weight loss GLP-1 drugs. They will cut that desire for most people as it blunts the brain’s reward center activities – i.e., you voluntarily turn away from sweets and other foods.
You have access through our doctor group on the website in fibr-Pro marketplace. Your client will go there to connect with the doctor (2-min Q&A) and medication can be on the way. In fact these drugs are now being investigated with very promising results on all drug/alcohol addictions.
Call me if you need more info on any of the above.
Have a great rest of your Sunday Brother!



 
From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Sunday, May 10, 2026 11:14 AM
To: [NAME] <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Quick Question For Ya!

Hey [NAME]-Harrison here.  Hope things are going well for you man and that you are enjoying Mother's Day.  Things have been going good with FIBR and I am still figuring out ways to implement it into my programming...

I wanted to ask your opinion on something.  So I myself am in Recovery, and most of the people that I work with are also addicts/alcoholics in Recovery as well..And most of us have a real problem with sugar and emotional eating (I would say most of which is at night) and I also really struggle with it-and even as a coach it has progressively gotten worse over time..  I can literally destroy Ben & Jerry's/Oreos and God know whatever else late at night and I feel like most of my clients have a big struggle with this at night as well..

My question to you is, are there any supplements (Or combination) I (and my clients) could take that would help with sugar cravings or late night sugar cravings?  

I feel like I don't have a solution for my clients on this particularly yet because I really haven't figured it out myself.  Freaking sugar man.  

Anyway, would love your input and I appreciate what you do!  

-Harrison

