Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. Yes all our products are 3rd party tested and many are also NSF-CS, which is always on the label. Products 3rd party tested by Eurofins (marked with 3rd party tested seal on the labels), which is also on the new labeling just recently released. Therefore, you may have been looking at some old label products that were Eurofins certified but not yet on the labels. All NSF -CS products have always had the certification on the labels since 2009. You can visit this document- dotFIT Product Manufacturing & Third Party Testing for more information including on our manufacturers, Eurofins and NSF. Further, all our facilities are NSF Certified even if Eurofins is the 3rd party tester. Below is more information and examples of labels containing what you may have missed.
Thanks again and have a great day.


Here is a label with NSF - CalciumComplex


Here is a label with 3rd Party Tested - ThermAccel



More Info

3rd Party Tested & NSF Certified for Sport Dietary Supplements
dotFIT is Evidence Based* 24/7 Support with Practitioner Products Only
dotFIT Worldwide is R&D company that delivers holistic evidence-based programming, products and support to over 1700 Sport/Fitness & Health Facilities, and over 75,000 sport & fitness professionals
 
#1 Recommended and Used Dietary Supplements in the Sport & Fitness Channels including college and professional sports
If you are looking for health, performance and fitness support with Practitioner Products only (not found in consumer channels and sold through professionals) and want full product disclosure (rationale for use, mechanisms of action, safety, contraindications, etc.) you can click the link to the dotFIT Practitioner's Dietary Supplement Reference Guide (PDSRG) that is used by all our sport, fitness and health professionals and published by our Scientific Advisory Board and R&D team. The first section describes everything around criteria, recommendation, testing and manufacturing processes. All products are 3rd party tested and specific dotFIT health and performance products are also NSF Certified for Sport (NSFCS). Peer review quality documents for individual products are found in their respective categories. dotFIT is a research and development company for sport, fitness and health professionals, therefore, all programs/products must pass our Evidence-Based Advisory and Legal Committee Rules including 3rd party testing procedures such as Eurofins, NSF and mandatory audited GMPs. Individual products can be found in respective sections. PDSRG (used for formulation safety and efficacy rationale, certification and education purposes, not consumer facing and located in the certified practitioner console).
*Evidence based: sport and fitness/weight control solutions (or clinical decisions) that represent the best available evidence and supported by the consensus of their respective scientific community

Practitioner Product Status by Rules
Efficacy – dosages & forms match clinical trials – published unequivocal evidence with 1000s of peer review references to support safety & efficacy of ingredient dosage & forms published in PDSRG)
Safety – shown in trials and history, screening & ingredient synergy
Purity & Potency – tested from start to finish
Nutrient Delivery – right place, right time -bio-actives hit the target tissues
Truth in labeling – legal facts based on #1 & prove it with 3rd party testing
Practitioner delivered – Personalized Practitioner Delivery (legitimizes the recommendation): synergistic solution based on body statistics, sport, goals, experience, medical history & progress
Remove the doubt with the Practitioner resource
Click here Sports (3:23); all consumers (6min)
Takeaway
You need both: 1) documentation that doses/forms match positive clinical trials found in the practitioner dietary supplement reference guide (PDSRG) i.e., submitted documentation; and 2) 3rd party testing to make sure it’s in the product and recommended at that dosage (Ref)
 

 
From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Wednesday, May 6, 2026 10:34 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Contact Us


 
Name: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Phone: [PHONE]
Message: Your products say their third party tested who is the third party testing done by? Because I don't see any seal from any group on your products of being third-party tested. 
 

