Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. What you are experiencing, is what many people go through after dieting to reach a lower bodyfat. They reach it and celebrate and then find themselves having an ongoing difficult relationship with food. The more aggressive the weight loss (continuous calorie restrictions leading to >2LBS week) the more common this relationship with foods become. The primary reason for successful weight loss is the trigger event – i.e., what motivated you in the first place, such the wedding in your case. You need to find another motivating factor for the rest of your life and then follow the weekly average calorie intake that keeps you at the goal weight/bodyfat. Meaning you can incorporate the foods you like (on weekends or whatever day) within those weekly calories. Example: if your maintenance calories are ~2500caloires/day to maintain your desired bodyfat after you have reached your goal, you can consume and average of 2200calories/d during the week leaving you 5 days X 300calores=1500 calories extra for favorite foods on top of the normal calorie intake. And remember, you can always move more (walking, playing sports, biking, etc.) to offset the extra calorie intake, especially on the weekends.
The majority of us former athletes where our sport required regular aggressive dieting (e.g., bodybuilding, wrestling, jockeys, combat sports, etc.,) have ongoing problematic relationships with foods (we call it diet PTSD) that we control based on lifelong fitness goals. For me, a retired bodybuilder and now fitness/nutrition leader, I still make a living by being in shape. And you too will be able to control your overall calorie intake if you had to “support your family” by doing so.
So find your motivation, log your foods for at least 90days, lose no more than 1LB/week until you reach your goal, at which time your calories will be adjusted to your maintenance. Assuming you are not a member of one of our licensed facilities, you can use the dotFIT program to accomplish all this. It contains the diet information you need to get started and stay on track with your caloric intake/menu planning, etc. It will also give a dietary support program (see below) to help you stick to the plan and reach your goal healthily. I’m also connecting you here with Mark Rowland (certified counselor and cc’d here) so as necessary, he can get you pointed in the right direction including proper access to the tools you need. And finally, at the bottom of the email, you will see some tips and tricks you may find helpful.
Hope this all helps!
Thanks again and have a great day.
  

ThermAccel in Baseline
Links will take you to a brief product description including video
Daily:
dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender If 50yrs or older use Over50 unless noted below; if female under 50 use Women’s; Males and very active females (competitive training protocols) under 50 use 2-Active, with both genders continuing use till 65yrs if still training competitively at which time every person will use Over50; children under 12yr use Kids; children 12-17yr use 1-Active).
Take as directed with meals
ThermAccel (TA)
Take 2 tablets at breakfast and 2 with lunch, accompanied by at least 8 oz of fluids. Individuals sensitive to caffeine should begin with 1-tab twice daily to assess tolerance before increasing to the maximum dose of 4 tablets daily. Do not use TA with other stimulants or by individuals taking heart medications. Once fat/weight loss goals are achieved and lifestyle changes are firmly in place, ThermAccel can be discontinued.
Daily as needed:
Favorite dotFIT protein mix 
Use as directed to make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of LBM (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 3-5 times daily
If exercising, use as directed to get ~25-35gm/protein 30-40min before workout & repeat dose immediately post workout (see below)
Can be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired supporting contents) to shore up total daily protein needs
SuperCalcium (read all food and shake labels)
Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food/shake intake
Females take 1 or 2 daily with meals; if you need to take 2, take one with AM meal and the 2nd with PM meal; Males take 1 only if necessary
SuperOmega-3 
Take 1-2 daily with meal if not consuming 8-16oz/wk fatty fish (take 1 if >8oz/wk but <16; 2 if ≤8oz); not necessary if consuming ≥16oz/wk unless for athletic recovery purposes
Workout days
dotFIT Protein of choice*. Use as directed to get:
25-35gm/protein 30-40min before workout & repeat same dose immediately following exercise
*May substitute favorite dotFIT Nutrition High Protein Bar based on venue convenience

Here are your natural options that have been highly successful in curbing late night appetites including the proverbial sweet tooth:
Combine Weight Loss and Liver Support (WLLS) with ThermAccel and take daily as directed
Use the Alln1 SuperBlend™ instead of your current multivitamin and mineral formula (and any other supplements it replaces) and take 1-scoop in AM and 1 in PM to cut the late night appetite
The most popular way of incorporating Alln1 SuperBlend™ into lifestyle is 1-scoop combined with 1svg of your favorite vanilla protein, fruit, ice and water. Take other dose as desired (often taken with water/favorite fluid and ice in evening to help control appetite (may add ½-1 scoop AminoFormula if needed).
Incorporate bodybuilder tricks at night
Brush your teeth after your last meal (sends a signal to the brain you’re done).
Chew sugarless gum as your desert
Drink a diet soda for desert
Mix AminoFormula with a low calorie beverage and drink it for your desert.
Save your last calories for a low calorie desert such as low calorie frozen yogurt or a protein bar

From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Monday, May 11, 2026 12:56 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Nutrition
Question: Hey I recently dieted to my leanest ever of about 11 to 12% body fat realistically. I dieted pretty hard because I had a wedding to go to. I sadly love food and went on a crazy weekend binge where I lost control and went from 188 lbs to 204.6 lbs in just 2 days. I really wanted to keep that lean physique I built but feel like I lost all of my progress. I also want to find a way to enjoy eating some of my favorite foods on the weekend without feeling like I’m going to go crazy and eat everything in sight. Ever since dieting down all I can think of is food and can’t seem to ever stop feeling hungry unless I eat until I’m uncomfortably full.
 

