Dosing
Caffeine’s effects on cognitive performance (alertness, vigilance, memory, etc.) are generally experienced at relatively lower doses such as .25-2 mg/lb of body weight.
Dosages that induce improvements in exercise performance range from 1.4-3 mg/lb of body weight (not to exceed 600 mg) and taken approximately one hour pre-activity.
Except under unique circumstances, doses greater than 4.1 gm/lb of body weight deliver no further benefit
For exercise performance, caffeine in the anhydrous form is preferred based on the ability to accurately assess and control the dosing
CA supplementation within recommended doses is considered safe for healthy individuals
Competitors should experiment with dosing described here during practice sessions in order to personalize their most effective protocol including testing abstention for two to four days

Typical Use
Adult exercisers/athletes not bothered by stimulants seeking to delay fatigue, prolong and improve performance during events:
Five (5) capsules 40-60 minutes before activity (totaling 350 mg caffeine) unless caffeine sensitive, in which case start with two (2) capsules and adjust as necessary
Adults not bothered by stimulants, as a pre-workout or event energy enhancement supplement or as a daily pick-me-up.
 Take 1-2 servings daily (2-4tabs/day) before the event or each serving separated as desired. 
Should not be taken within four (4) hours of other products containing stimulants (especially caffeine) such as coffee, energy drinks, etc. or mixed with other stimulants. Do not use at least 5-hours before bed 



or with other stimulants
Short to long event-duration/endurance activities (running, cycling, etc.)



Five (5) capsules 40-60 minutes before activity (totaling 350 mg caffeine) unless caffeine sensitive, in which case start with two (2) capsules and adjust as necessary or; 
Use 1.4 to 3 mg/lb of body weight (not to exceed 600 mg) take 40-60 minutes before activity
If competing, experiment to achieve proper dose and abstain from all caffeine including WorkoutExtreme two to four days before competition
Intermittent athletes, such as football, baseball, soccer, hockey, rugby, swimming, etc.
Five (5) capsules 40-60 minutes before activity (totaling 350 mg caffeine) unless caffeine sensitive, in which case start with two (2) capsules and adjust as necessary
Any adult not bothered by stimulants, as a pre-workout or event energy enhancement supplement or as a daily pick-me-up. Take as directed.
If using regularly, it is recommended to cycle use three weeks on and at least one week off, or use only as needed before activities.
Should not be taken within four (4) hours of other products containing stimulants (especially caffeine) such as coffee, energy drinks, etc. or mixed with other stimulants.

