http://www.dotfit.com/sucralose

Remember, 98% of sucralose passes through the body, unabsorbed.  It essentially an inert ingredient used for taste/palatability

Sucralose Q&A
Q: Why do you use Sucralose and is it a safe artificial sweetener?

A: Yes. Sucralose is widely used as an artificial sweetener because it has been placed on the Generally Regarded as Safe (GRAS) List by the FDA, based on the results from more than 110 studies on both humans and animals., Sucralose is one of 7 nonnutritive sweeteners (NNS) that the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics (ADA) has listed as evidence-based (see Position Statement from the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics below) and completely safe for the general population. As such, sucralose is used to improve the taste and mixing qualities of products without adding additional calories from sugar that might otherwise lead to unwanted weight gain.
As you know, we are an evidence-based R&D Company. We are bound by this scientific approach in both program and product development.  In particular, our guiding principles on dietary supplement use, recommendations, formulations and manufacturing are best summed up by stating that dotFIT products must be 100% defensible through scientific research. (See pages 7-13 of Supplement Reference Guide for specific criteria formulation and manufacturing criteria at  http://www.dotfit.com/PDSRG2015Update 

I have included more extensive information below from our R&D Team regarding the current use of this ingredient, its approval by the scientific community, and a couple of common Q&As from our Fitness Vault that you may find valuable. 

More Information
If someone has a non-scientific reason (i.e. not un-referenced internet or cult nutrition information that may be referenced but taken out of context of real world usage) not to ingest minute amounts of certain ingredients, we completely understand and certainly won't try altering their emotional reasoning. We totally respect personal but individual views. For everyone else that would like to be properly enlightened on the use of NNS on please read on:
When we formulate something we do it safely and effectively following evidence based rules so that the vast majority of the population can use it, afford it and benefit. Sucralose is on the Generally Regarded as Safe (GRAS) list published by the FDA and one of the 7 non-nutritive sweeteners that are listed by the ADA as evidence-based and completely safe3. Additionally, artificial flavoring & sweeteners (and especially in the normal minute amounts) are often safer for the general population because of natural food allergies and can deliver the sweet taste with little to no calories thus helping support weight control. Products taken once/twice daily and/or on workout days, will cause NO problems unless a person is proven to be allergic to something in the contents. Below are a 2 related Q&A that provide additional insight. The point is, we focus on taking care of our primary users: The vast majority of athletes and exercisers. We would love to make a specialized product for everyone but that's definitely not economically feasible for either side.

Q: I saw sucralose in one of your products and my neighbor said it was bad for you so I hesitated to purchase?
A: I don't know your neighbors credentials but we can probably put this to rest by saying that because we (dotFIT) work only within an evidence-based* platform, the 7 sweeteners, including sucralose, approved by the FDA fall into this category thus acceptable for use - and ESPECIALLY in the minute amounts in our products. There is no possibility of any kind of toxicity in normal everyday consumption. Sucralose has been shown safe at levels of over 1300grams or packets a day, which we be equivalent to that many nutrition bars or servings of powders daily! And by the way, 1300gms daily of any of the healthiest single essential nutrients in the human food supply would probably kill you very quickly where sucralose wouldn't.
That said everyone has their own beliefs on NNSs or artificial sweeteners (AS) and one of them is the neurotoxin connection that unfortunately is heavily internet-driven (doesn't mean there are not some potential roots of truths based on non-realistic usage like over 1300 packets daily). And contrary to one highly publicized but flawed study, there is NO evidence that AS contribute to type 2 diabetes as high sugar and weight gain do. The ADA evidence-based guidelines include the use of NNS/artificial sweeteners for the use of weaning people off sugar, which of course is a far greater detriment because of the calories leading to our nation's #1 problem. And no, NNS/AS do not lead to weight gain although that myth also surfaces but the latest studies prove otherwise.,
Use of NNS/AS is an argument you never win when someone has their minds made up - but we live in the current scientific thinking that is captured in evidence-based criteria so that's what we must follow because therein lies the safest solutions for our customers that deliver desired the results.
*Evidence based: fitness/weight control solutions (or clinical decisions) that represent the best available evidence
Below is from our Fitness Vault on a related question. 

Q: Is Splenda (sucralose) dangerous to consume due to the chlorine used in making it?
A: It’s true that Splenda (which 600 times sweeter than sugar) is made using chlorine, but there is no evidence that the chlorine atoms in sucralose are any more dangerous than they are in sodium chloride (i.e. table salt). Plain sugar is transformed into sucralose by substituting three chlorine atoms for hydrogen, creating a substance that is not digested by the body and is therefore calorie-free. 
Animal models (rats, average weight of 250-520 grams) have been given doses of sucralose as high as 6.2 grams per day (16g/kg) without any toxic effects. The same amount (16g/kg of sucralose) given to an average size male (84.1 kg) would be 1,345 grams/day or 1,345 packets.1,2 It's highly unlikely this amount would be consumed in one day.
The US Food and Drug Administration reviewed more than 110 human and animal studies demonstrating its safety before it approved sucralose or Splenda for human consumption1.
Below is from University of California Berkeley:
Artificial & Natural 
Often, artificial ingredients are used to improve a product by making it one or more of the following: better tasting, safer, less expensive but deliver the same basic nutritional value with fewer calories. Artificial sweeteners (e.g. Sucralose, Acesulfame Potassium, etc.) are used in order to reduce total sugar content. All approved sweeteners and infinitesimal amounts of binders (as in supplements) used in many products are perfectly amenable to the human digestive system and 100% safe for the general population (see FDA, ADA and Generally Regarded as Safe [GRAS] list for position on sweeteners, binders, etc). Additionally, artificial substitutes (e.g. sweeteners, colorings, flavorings, binders, etc.) are often safer than the "natural" counterpart because of common natural food allergies and the ability to deliver the desired sweetness with little to no calories to potentially help control weight5.
Below is from the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics

J Acad Nutr Diet. 2012 May;112(5):739-58. doi: 10.1016/j.jand.2012.03.009. Epub 2012 Apr 25.
Position of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics: use of nutritive and nonnutritive sweeteners. Fitch C, Keim KS; Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. West Virginia University, Morgantown, WV, USA.
Abstract
It is the position of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics that consumers can safely enjoy a range of nutritive sweeteners and nonnutritive sweeteners (NNS) when consumed within an eating plan that is guided by current federal nutrition recommendations, such as the Dietary Guidelines for Americans and the Dietary Reference Intakes, as well as individual health goals and personal preference. A preference for sweet taste is innate and sweeteners can increase the pleasure of eating. Nutritive sweeteners contain carbohydrate and provide energy. They occur naturally in foods or may be added in food processing or by consumers before consumption. Higher intake of added sugars is associated with higher energy intake and lower diet quality, which can increase the risk for obesity, pre-diabetes, type 2 diabetes, and cardiovascular disease. On average, adults in the United States consume 14.6% of energy from added sugars. Polyols (also referred to as sugar alcohols) add sweetness with less energy and may reduce risk for dental caries. Foods containing polyols and/or no added sugars can, within food labeling guidelines, be labeled as sugar-free. NNS are those that sweeten with minimal or no carbohydrate or energy. They are regulated by the Food and Drug Administration as food additives or generally recognized as safe. The Food and Drug Administration approval process includes determination of probable intake, cumulative effect from all uses, and toxicology studies in animals. Seven NNS are approved for use in the United States: acesulfame K, aspartame, luo han guo fruit extract, neotame, saccharin, stevia, and sucralose. They have different functional properties that may affect perceived taste or use in different food applications. All NNS approved for use in the United States are determined to be safe.



