Q: Is it ok to use all 3 items in the lean pack 90 all at the same time?
A: The answer is either way. You can take them simultaneously if you have a tight timeline or simply as directed over the 90days (one product a month). See below for more information.

FAQs
Q: Can I take all Lean Pack 90 products daily or individually over the 90days? 
A: You can use the products as they are designed for the kit, meaning using the Weight Loss and Liver Support the first 30days; CarbRepel the second 30days, and end with ThermAccel for the last 30 days for a total of 90-days. Or you can use them simultaneously if you need extra assistance or have tight timeline to lose weight since they all work by different mechanisms. Simply use each one as directed daily.
 
Q: Do you recommend CR (or WLLS) and ThermAccel used together if I want to boost weight/fat loss? 
A: Yes, you can use CarbRepel with ThermAccel (TA), or any of the dotFIT weight loss products such as Weight Loss and Liver Support together, and it is commonly done with people needing extra help, as each product works to support appetite and metabolism through different and unique mechanisms. Simply follow the directions on each product label. The links will take you to a brief product description including short video.

Q: A client asked me if she should still take CarbRepel (CR) before a meal if not eating carbs at that particular meal. Also, what if you forget to take it 30 minutes before a meal? Can you take it right before or should you wait till later? 
A: No, you would not use CR if not consuming carbs, or very little carbs such as only vegetables or a little fruit. Taking CR as it was used in the clinical trials is ideal (~30min before a carb containing meal), but it will still work if you take it at/before, or very close, to the meal.  
 
Q: A client asked me if she should still take WLLS in the morning if she's not going to eat breakfast. Also, what if you forget to take it 30 minutes before a meal? Can you take it right before or should you wait till later? 
A: The bottom line is that the Weight Loss & Liver Support should be consumed 3 times daily and separated as evenly as possible to help maintain the desired levels of ingredients. Taking it before a meal is one way of spreading it out and getting help in appetite support within 30min. But it’s not necessary once you start using the product regularly. The goal is to keep it consistent, so it works all day, because each dose brings the levels back up to maximum effectiveness.
And yes, have your client take it in the morning even if not consuming breakfast.



From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Wednesday, July 17, 2024 3:29 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Supplements
Question: Is it ok to use all 3 items in the lean pack 90 all at the same time? 
 

