Thanks for your email, Anthony!
We recently changed manufacturers for this product.  With this change, the product may have differences with the new group producing it for us.  This is what you are noticing.  The taste is also going to be different but we run this through taste test groups with the foreknowledge that it will may be have a different taste and where we can, we work on improving the taste.  This was the consensus from the taste test group.  Everyone felt that this formula tasted much better than the previous formula.

I have 2 bottles of Vanilla All Natural Whey Smooth. Both bottles are 2lbs but there are noticeable differences: -the bottles are different sizes -the scoop serving sizes are different -various other nutrition aspects are different -the taste is slightly different What has changed? 
Hi [NAME],
Thanks for contacting us. All is good, as we always update our natural flavor packages (see below) based on our extensive family focus group networks. I’m connecting you with Chad (VP of product development) to answer any other questions.
Thanks again and have a great day.
More Info
There have been no active ingredient formula changes to any of our proteins (including All-Natural WheySmooth), therefore safety and efficacy are identical, but we are always tinkering with flavors and mix-ability. Our focus groups selected this slightly enhanced flavor package over the previous. The goal is always to get more people to like and continue to use the best protein for their fitness goals.
From Chad
Thanks for your email, Anthony!
We recently changed manufacturers for this product.  With this change, the product may have differences with the new group producing it for us.  This is what you are noticing.  The taste is also going to be different but we run this through taste test groups with the foreknowledge that it will may be have a different taste and where we can, we work on improving the taste.  This was the consensus from the taste test group.  Everyone felt that this formula tasted much better than the previous formula.


From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Wednesday, October 30, 2024 6:25 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Contact Us


 
Name: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Phone: [PHONE]
Message: I have 2 bottles of Vanilla All Natural Whey Smooth. Both bottles are 2lbs but there are noticeable differences: -the bottles are different sizes -the scoop serving sizes are different -various other nutrition aspects are different -the taste is slightly different What has changed? 
 

