Hi [CUSTOMER],
There is no true weight range, just age. We are out of the Kids for another month or so. We have the “starting Alln1 SuperBlendTM at 12yrs” as business decision, as there is no scientific reason. In other words, at age 10yrs you could use slightly less than ½ scoop and see if the child likes it. On that note Casey, the updated formula will start shipping in mid-February (see note we below to staff and partner decision makers that explains, and we will eventually be sent out as needed to all, including an announcement).
Have a great day buddy!


Updated Formula
The updated formula with the new fiber in the Alln1 SuperBlendTM to eliminate any gastrointestinal (GI) issues is now here. I’m sending it to you guys, so you have it first! We will start shipping from the warehouse to all partners/accounts starting around mid-February when the 1st batch is sold out. Jill is cc’d here to make sure you all get your new jug.

The only difference is the prebiotic/fiber ingredient (formerly organic inulin from agave, now Acacia), and believe it or not, it gave it a significant flavor improvement, which we thought impossible with all the natural ingredients it contains. The Acacia fiber is very gentle but just as effective in repopulating your gut with good bacteria and helping repair a “leaking gut. Therefore, we don’t need anyone to start with ½ scoop/daily. They can now start with a full if desired. However, because many people enjoy taking half in the morning and half later in the day to help control appetite or mix with their pre-workout/AminoFormula, we put in an adult half-serving size scoop, so that 1-serving is now 2-scoops, but it is still a 1-month supply (see new directions). Mindful that 1-scoop now would be a full dose for 12-18yr olds (and by the way, every kid should be on it to manage their stress in this whacked out world they get constantly distracting in😊).

Moreover, for the 10-15% of people that had any GI discomfort from using before, that issue has been eliminated for probably anyone. The reason we know this is because we rounded up ~15 people that got gaseous when they used the previous formula and made them the testers as we altered fibers. Everyone one of them took full scoops of this final product for a full month and never had any issues and loved it, so we knew we hit the homerun.
Good timing as word is spreading, and now everyone can be loving it as most of us do.


  


From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Monday, January 22, 2024 6:12 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Supplements
Question: Client of mine would like to have her 75# 10 year old use All in One. Is there a weight breakdown or only age. Label obviously says 12 and older which is why she was asking. I recommended df kids chewable if unable to use A1
 

