Hi [CUSTOMER]
Thanks for contacting us and your engagement. We would love to only produce all natural and unflavored in everything, but we would quickly be out of business. We tried the unflavored, no sweeteners protein and essential amino acid (EAA) line, and we couldn't give the stuff away (and our gyms didn’t have enough room to carry more products, especially ones that didn’t sell). We have the All-Natural WheySmooth and the BestPlantProtein (all vegan) for those not wanting any artificial sweeteners/flavors. We will have an unflavored CreatineMonohydtrate out in January to go with the current one. You should also be mindful that all-natural comes with many problems beyond the inferior tastes and that is the reactions many people have to natural ingredients like stevia and other natural sources because natural is what causes allergies in the first place, thus the warning on food labels. All natural products also have a higher heavy metal count because things like lead, mercury, cadmium, etc., are natural in our earth, thus in the ingredients and too much is bad. Further, these metals cannot be completely removed, thus remain high in anything natural. We deliver regular lectures on these topics, and you are welcome to join and bring your clients on as well. I attached 3-slides from one of our lectures that you may find helpful. And finally, Robert, always keep in mind the “principle of moderation”, which is used to establish existing evidence-based facts. Berlinda is cc’d here if you would like to join our regular webinars. 
Thanks again and have great Sunday 





 
Neal Spruce
CEO
Office. [PHONE]
Fax.     [PHONE]
Follow my podcast, SuppBeast, available on all channels!
           

From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Sunday, November 10, 2024 10:56 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Supplements
Question: Do you provide Creatine Monohydrate, EAA's, and Whey protein isolate in pure form, without any flavoring or additives, or artificial sweetners? I for one, but I speak for many, prefer the plain, pure supplements. Many of us mix them in our protein shakes, smoothies, etc.. Many of the people i work with or work around prefer the simple ingredients. That would be a great option to offer to our clients. Thank you for your consideration!!
 

