Name: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Phone: [PHONE]
Message: Hi, Is the SuperBlend methylated? Thank you in advance! Respectfully, [NAME]

Hi [NAME],
Thanks for contacting us. There is a lot of junk science regarding methylated vitamin forms, so we seem to be getting this question often. See below for your answer and be mindful that Only B9 (folate) and B12 are available in the market in their methylated forms and the body will convert forms as needed depending on the destination regardless of origin as long as you have enough. The Alln1 SuperBlend (and dotFIT MVMs) uses both B9/Folate (calcium L-5-methyltetrahydrofolate) and B12 (methylcobalamin) in the methylated forms.
Thanks again and have a great day.

Q: Are all your vitamins methylated vitamins? How would I be able to tell?
A: Your question is vague, in the fact that not all vitamins should contain a methyl donor to be effective (actually it is a problem for some). What you want in any vitamin, is an absorbable form (i.e., a form that is already prepared as the body would prepare it once extracted from a food source). All our vitamins (and minerals) are in a pre-formed structure to allow the body proper “functional absorption” (active at the target tissue), which is better than bioavailable absorption. All our labels have the form listed. Do not be fooled that all vitamins need a methyl group to be effective. In all our products, if it needs a methyl group, it will be part of it and listed on the label such as B12 or Folate in our Alln1 SuperBlendTM. If you would like to talk to a chemist further, please reach back out and Chad (VP of Product Development) will connect you.


From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Thursday, October 10, 2024 12:57 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Contact Us


 
 


Hey buddy,
Something is wrong with whatever your trainer is referring to. He is reading (or hearing from an unqualified influencer) something out of context. Both cyanocobalamin and methylcobalamin are forms the body uses to functionally absorb B12 (arrive at target tissues and go to work), which is why both forms are often used in Multivitamin and Mineral Formulas (MVM). The Alln1 SuperBlendTM only uses methylcobalamin to keep it all vegan. Your trainer is confused by stuff floating around the internet about “methylation”. If he has a series of peer review groundbreaking studies supporting what he thinks he is saying that uses human subjects consuming normal physiologic dosages of B12, please send them with an explanation regarding the methods and materials used to support the conclusion.

In the meantime, he can read some important facts: Cyanocobalamin is a synthetic compound of vitamin B12 used to treat vitamin deficiencies. Chemically, cyanocobalamin is classified as a "corrinoid," representing a crystallizable cobalt complex. The name "cyanocobalamin" is derived from including a cyanide group within the molecule. Cyanocobalamin is approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for pernicious anemia, malabsorption, atrophic gastritis, gastrectomy, Helicobacter pylori infection, and other conditions. Vitamin B12 facilitates several methylation reactions within the body. Methylcobalamin is a cofactor that helps in the conversion of homocysteine to methionine in the body. Furthermore, in the form of adenosylcobalamin, the vitamin is crucial in converting methylmalonyl-coenzyme A (CoA) to succinyl-CoA. Both of these reactions are essential for cell division and growth. Therefore, Vitamin B12 in two forms: methylcobalamin and cyanocobalamin, are important but methylcobalamin is the most effective at being delivered to neurons to support brain health., 

See below for more layman confusion, mindful that Only B9 (folate) and B12 are available in the market in their methylated forms and the body will generally convert forms as needed depending on final destination regardless of origin as long as you have enough.

Q: Are all your vitamins methylated vitamins? How would I be able to tell?
A: Your question is vague, in the fact that not all vitamins should contain a methyl donor to be effective (actually it is a problem for some). What you want in any vitamin, is an absorbable form (i.e., a form that is already prepared as the body would prepare it once extracted from a food source). All our vitamins (and minerals) are in a pre-formed structure to allow the body proper “functional absorption” (active at the target tissue), which is better than bioavailable absorption. All our labels have the form listed. Do not be fooled that all vitamins need a methyl group to be effective. In all our products, if it needs a methyl group, it will be part of it and listed on the label such as B12 or Folate in our Alln1 SuperBlendTM. If you would like to talk to a chemist further, please reach back out and Chad (VP of Product Development) will connect you.

