Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. The reason the dotFIT Multivitamin and Mineral Formulas (MVM) do not contain calcium (no other MVM should either), is because if you need more calcium the amount you need would not fit into a tablet that contains the other known under-consumed vitamins and minerals (VM). Therefore, if needed, because you consume less the recommended (1000-1300mgs/d), you would use a separate formula such as the dotFIT SuperCalcium. From the Practitioner Dietary Supplement Reference Guide (PDSRG) regarding your question: Calcium and potassium present the exceptions to a single complete vitamin and mineral supplement (CVMS) because if they are needed, the amounts generally would not fit in an acceptable pill size along with the other known under-consumed vitamins and minerals (VMs). , While impossible to validate all the individual vitamin and mineral content of your foods (unless testing each food immediately before consumption), calcium and potassium food content are relatively easy to quantify given the new labeling laws. Therefore, the standard adult formula would omit these two minerals allowing persons to add separately only if needed, which a quick glance at one’s diet can determine.
See below for more information from the Practitioner Dietary Supplement Reference Guide (PDSRG).
Thanks again and have a great weekend.

More Info 
Goal of calcium supplementation (SuperCalcium+)
To supply calcium with other supporting bone building nutrients commonly low in western diets in the amounts necessary to complement food intake in achieving the calcium Recommended Dietary Allowances (RDAs) to help build and maintain bone health throughout one's lifespan. Calcium is one of the known under-consumed essential minerals and listed as a nutrient of concern by the Dietary Guidelines for Americans (DGA). The product is designed, including the recommendations to 1) deliver calcium in targeted amounts in combination with food intake, to reach and stay within established guidelines (1,000-1,300 mg/day) when diet falls short*; 2) deliver the co-factors (e.g. proper forms of vitamins K, D and magnesium) required to maximize calcium's uptake into the skeletal structure, minimize resorption and avoid unhealthy deposits; 3) maintain all ingredients in a safe and recommended range when combined with diet, a multivitamin and mineral (MVM)* or other dotFIT branded products; 4) function effectively (as claimed) as a standalone product if for some reason a user is not consuming a complimentary dotFIT daily multivitamin and mineral or some other branded MVM formula.
*Calcium and potassium present the caveat to a single complete vitamin and mineral supplement (CVMS) because if they are needed, the amounts generally would not fit in an acceptable pill size along with the other known under-consumed vitamins and minerals (VMs). , While impossible to validate all the individual vitamin and mineral content of your foods (unless testing each food immediately before consumption), calcium and potassium food content are relatively easy to quantify given the new labeling laws. Therefore, the standard adult formula would omit these two minerals allowing persons to add separately only if needed, which a quick glance at one’s diet can determine. 




 

From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Saturday, March 2, 2024 8:47 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Supplements
Question: Why do you MV vitamins not contain Calcium?
 

