The laws of thermodynamics are not to be disputed on planet earth (specifically the 1st law). Every true scientist knows how this works

The First Law of Thermodynamics states that energy can be converted from one form to another with the interaction of heat, work and internal energy, but it cannot be created nor destroyed, under any circumstances (i.e., energy can just be converted from one form to another).
Therefore, any change in body composition is the average difference between calories in and calories out regardless of the makeup of the calories because we are measuring a result, not the foods that led to it. That said, proper foods will increase the calories burned, but at the end of the day, energy cannot be created or destroyed, meaning that the difference between calories/energy in and out  is transformed and measurable.
Human body composition (including body weight) example
(Numbers used are to make the math easier – but equations are true)
If you were 200LBS and 20% bodyfat and consumed 2000 calories/d of mostly French fries and 2 weeks later you were 21% bodyfat and 201LBS, (~2LBS bodyfat gain and 1lb LBM loss) means you consumed ~7K more calories than you burned (~500c/day more intake), this is presumably from the inability to burn many calories because of poor diet, no protein synthesis, loss of LBM (reduces calories burned), energy, etc. 
Taking the same person eating 2000calories of 1gm/lb/protein/day, some good carbs (e.g., fruits, veggies, grains) and fats, and 2-weeks later (after consuming 28K calories) was 18% bodyfat (lost ~4LBS bodyfat) and weighed 195 (gained ~1lb muscle) would mean that the average deficit would look like this: 4LBS fat loss=~14K calorie burn above 28K (14days of 2000c intake) =42K usage; 1lb muscle gain = ~1700 calorie deposition into muscle, therefore 42K minus 1700= 40,300 calories burned. Total 2-week calorie deficit =12,300 ÷14days=~878calories a day average.
And of course, the reason for the extra burn from the same number of calorie diet is because the diet was healthy/energetic and designed to build muscle (when paired with exercise). Basically, a healthier diet creates the desire and allows you to move more, and the deficit or surplus doesn’t lie.
Moral of the story is that body composition change will always be a product of energy in versus energy out because energy cannot be destroyed or created, only transformed/transferred – but the makeup of the calories consumed is responsible for the performance, or total calories burned. But the mass change can always be quantified by the difference between the 2 when measuring body composition.
In other words, the same number of calories in, but a completely different outcome because of the calorie makeup. However, after the fact, the result is 100% defined by the difference between calories/energy in and calories/energy out. Moreover, knowing your calories in and out tied to your body composition goal, is necessary so that you can continue to adjust these amounts/numbers (or foods/supplements that may move the numbers) to make your desired progress and overcome plateaus. The right calories consumed will help you voluntarily increase your calories burned and the difference between the 2 at any point is quantifiable based on body composition and weight changes.

