Hey [CUSTOMER] – here is the information you requested.
Have a great week!!

CreatineMonohydrate and ExtremeCreatineXXXL+ (click links for brief product descriptions including a short video)

The reason people load creatine (5gms 4times daily to equal 20gms daily for the first 5 days of usage, then begin your maintenance dose throughout the rest of your usage) is to achieve the ergogenic benefit sooner than later by getting your body at full creatine capacity within a week. Otherwise, taking only your maintenance dose from the beginning will get you to the same creatine levels after about a month of daily usage.
ExtremeCreatineXXXL+ (EC) has the same creatine monohydrate (CM) at 5gms a serving, along with 3.2gm of beta-alanine (BA) and glutaime. Therefore, to load 20gm/d of CM with EC you would get too much beta-alanine, causing a harmless tingling sensation. What many people do is load with the CM and then use EC for their continuing maintenance dose. You will have leftover CM but if you are over 175LBS you can add 1-scoop of CM daily to your EC dose to maximize creatine stores. If not over 175LBS, you wouldn’t need extra CM but can always save it for later use.
See below for dosing EC and CM as standalone products and in combo and an FAQ.


Q: What is the difference between the dotFIT ExtremeCreatineXXXL+ and CreatineMonohydrate?
A: CreatineMonohydrate is simply the creatine monohydrate. ExtremeCreatineXXXL is the same creatine monohydrate but also contains beta-alanine and glutamine for their respective additive performance benefits. For a product description including short video go to the dotFIT website store and click on the product you would like to learn about. Here are the direct links to the 2 products you requested https://www.dotfit.com/creatine-monohydrate, CreatineMonohydrate. Once you click in then go to “Overview” to get product details and video.
 
More Info
Dosing ExtremeCreatineXXXL+ as a Standalone Product 
• Take two scoops daily (5 g creatine, 3.2 g beta-alanine, 7 g L-glutamine) to achieve immediate training benefits and reach near maximum creatine and beta-alanine supplemented levels within 28-35 days and continue throughout the desired training period (always take with some protein and/or carbs but within allotted calories based on body composition goal). 
o Training days take 1scoop before training and one after. May mix in your pre and post workout shake containing protein with some carbohydrate. 
o Non-training days, take1 scoop with morning meal or shake and one (1) scoop with evening meal or shake


Dosing CreatineMonohydrate Loading & Maintenance* Strategy 
 Mix 1 scoop (5gms) with 4-8oz of favorite fluid/shake and take 4 times daily with a protein and/or carbohydrate containing meal/drink for first 5 days. Thereafter take 1-scoop twice daily to maintain stores. To help maximize creatine uptake, split doses throughout the day with meals/drinks containing protein and/or carbohydrate
 Training days: 1 dose before workout & 1 after with meals/drinks. May mix with your pre & post training formula
 Non-training days take 1-dose with AM meal and 1-dose with PM meal
 *If under 175LBS you can cut the daily maintenance dose in half - i.e., after loading period, take a total of 5gms daily and split as described
 


Combining CM & EXC for Loading and Maintenance
Loading phase: CreatineMonohydrate (CM)* 20g/d for first 5 days to load
 Mix 1 scoop (5g) with 4-8 oz of favorite fluid/shake and take four (4) times daily with a carbohydrate and/or protein containing meal/drink for the first 5 days.
Training days, use 1-dose before workout & 1-after with meals/drinks. May mix with your pre/post training formula.
*Maintenance phase: after 5-day loading phase: ExtremeCreatineXXXL+ (EC) to maintain all till end of cycle
 Take 2-scoops/d (always with some protein and/or carbs but within allotted calories based on body composition goal)
 Training days: 1-scoop before training with pre-workout shake or full meal. 1-scoop post workout with meal or shake
 Non-training days: 1-scoop with morning meal or shake & 1-scoop with evening meal or shake to maintain Cr & BA levels
If ≥ 175lb, may include 1-scoop CM/d in protocol to ensure full muscle creatine levels: take anytime with meal/shakes



