New Study Links Sweetener to Heart Risk: What to Know
Julie Stewart
August 09, 2024
Add to Email Alerts
3
542
 ur·i·thruh·taal
Is going sugar-free really good advice for patients with cardiometabolic risk factors? 
That's the question raised by new Cleveland Clinic research, which suggests that consuming erythritol, a sweetener widely found in sugar-free and keto food products, could spur a prothrombotic response. 
In the study, published in Arteriosclerosis, Thrombosis, and Vascular Biology, 10 healthy participants ate 30 grams of erythritol. Thirty minutes later, their blood showed enhanced platelet aggregation and increased markers of platelet responsiveness and activation. 
Specifically, the researchers saw enhanced stimulus-dependent release of serotonin (a marker of platelet dense granules) and CXCL4 (a platelet alpha-granule marker). 
" With every single person, you see a prothrombotic effect with every single test that we did," said study author Stanley Hazen, MD, PhD, chair of the Department of Cardiovascular & Metabolic Sciences at Cleveland Clinic in Ohio. By contrast, participants who ate 30 grams of glucose saw no such effect. 
The erythritol itself does not activate the platelets, Hazen said, rather it lowers the threshold for triggering a response. This could make someone more prone to clotting, raising heart attack and stroke risk over time.
Though the mechanism is unknown, Hazen has an idea. 
"There appears to be a receptor on platelets that is recognizing and sensing these sugar alcohols," Hazen said, "much in the same way your tastebud for sweet is a receptor for recognizing a glucose or sugar molecule." 
"We're very interested in trying to figure out what the receptor is," Hazen said, "because I think that then becomes a very interesting potential target for further investigation and study into how this is linked to causing heart disease."
The Past and Future of Erythritol Research
In 2001, the US Food and Drug Administration classified erythritol as a "generally recognized as safe" food additive. A sugar alcohol that occurs naturally in foods like melon and grapes, erythritol is also manufactured by fermenting sugars. It's about 70% as sweet as table sugar. Humans also produce small amounts of erythritol naturally: Our blood cells make it from glucose via the pentose phosphate pathway. 
Previous research from Hazen's group linked erythritol to a risk for major adverse cardiovascular events and clotting. 
"Based on their previous study, I think this was a really important study to do in healthy individuals," said Martha Field, PhD, assistant professor in the Division of Nutritional Sciences at Cornell University, Ithaca, New York, who was not involved in the study.
The earlier paper analyzed blood samples from participants with unknown erythritol intake, including some taken before the sweetener, and it was as widespread as it is today. That made disentangling the effects of eating erythritol vs naturally producing it more difficult. 
By showing that eating erythritol raises markers associated with thrombosis, the new paper reinforces the importance of thinking about and developing a deeper understanding of what we put into our bodies. 
"This paper was conducted in healthy individuals — might this be particularly dangerous for individuals who are at increased risk of clotting?" said Field. "There are lots of genetic polymorphisms that increase your risk for clotting disorders or your propensity to form thrombosis." 
Field would like to see similar analyses of xylitol and sorbitol, other sugar alcohols found in sugar-free foods. And she called for more studies on erythritol that look at lower erythritol consumption over longer time periods. 
Registered dietitian nutritionist Valisa E. Hedrick, PhD, agreed: Much more work is needed in this area, particularly in higher-risk groups, such as those with prediabetes and diabetes, said Hedrick, an associate professor in the Department of Human Nutrition, Foods, and Exercise at Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, Virginia, who was not involved in the study. 
"Because this study was conducted in healthy individuals, the impact of a small dose of glucose was negligible, as their body can effectively regulate blood glucose levels," she said. "Because high blood glucose concentrations have also been shown to increase platelet reactivity, and consequently increase thrombosis potential, individuals who are not able to regulate their blood glucose levels, such as those with prediabetes and diabetes, could potentially see a similar effect on the body as erythritol when consuming large amounts of sugar." 
At the same time, "individuals with diabetes or prediabetes may be more inclined to consume erythritol as an alternative to sugar," Hedrick added. "It will be important to design studies that include these individuals to determine if erythritol has an additive adverse effect on cardiac event risk."
Criticism and Impact 
Critics have suggested the 30-gram dose of erythritol ingested by study participants is unrealistic. Hazen said that it's not. 
Erythritol is often recommended as a one-to-one sugar replacement. And you could top 30 grams with a few servings of erythritol-sweetened ice cream or soda, Hazen said. 
"The dose that we used, it's on the high end, but it's well within a physiologically relevant level," he said. 
Still others say the results are only relevant for people with preexisting heart trouble. But Hazen said they matter for the masses. 
"I think there's a significant health concern at a population level that this work is underscoring," he said. 

After all, heart disease risk factors like obesity, hypertension, diabetes, and smoking are common and quickly add up. 

"If you look at middle-aged America, most people who experience a heart attack or stroke do not know that they have coronary artery disease, and the first recognition of it is that event," Hazen said. 

For now, Hazen recommends eating real sugar in moderation. He hopes future research will reveal a nonnutritive sweetener that doesn't activate platelets. 
The Bigger Picture
The new research adds yet another piece to the puzzle of whether nonnutritive sweeteners are better than sugar. 
"I think these results are concerning," said JoAnn E. Manson, MD, chief of the Division of Preventive Medicine at Brigham and Women's Hospital and a professor of medicine at Harvard Medical School, Cambridge, Massachusetts. They " may help explain the surprising results in some observational studies that artificial sweeteners are linked to an increased risk of cardiovascular disease."
Manson, who was not involved in the new study, has conducted other research linking artificial sweetener use with stroke risk.
In an upcoming randomized clinical study, her team is comparing head-to-head sugar-sweetened beverages, drinks sweetened with calorie-free substitutes, and water to determine which is best for a range of cardiometabolic outcomes. 
"We need more research on this question," she said, "because these artificial sweeteners are commonly used, and many people are assuming that their health outcomes will be better with the artificial sweeteners than with sugar-sweetened products."

