Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. The protein powders never really expire, so you are all good to use safely and effectively. The best buy day is generally within 2years from production because that it what the potency is tested for and always guaranteed to be at if retested. If a manufacture has surplus of a product such as FirstString, then it is sent back to NSF to be retested for full potency and a new best buy date is put on, again generally 2years. Meaning, if that product wasn’t sold until that new date (in your case 5/8/25) the label/potency is still intact and proven at a retest. Freshness would be the only possible compromise after 2 testing, but the potency would still be correct, thus safety and efficacy. But because protein powders are mixed with fluids, you wouldn’t notice a difference in taste/freshness. As of note, it’s rare that we have anything in stock past the original expiration date as our inventories turn over quickly. There was a surplus of FirstString because of a large protein raw material purchase that was made during a world-wide shortage of whey proteins, so that we would not run out until worldwide supplies were replenished. See below for more information or reach out to Chad (cc’d here) if you have any more questions.
Thanks again and have a great day.

More Info
The “Expiration Dates” are basically a “best sold by date” with the product still potent. All dates are 2-years after production, only because you don’t need much more than that based on inventory turnover. But the product is still fine (safe and effective) to at least another 2years after the date in case you have not used it in a while, and kept it sealed.

The definition of an expiration date for nutritional products such as ours, is that the product must be within 10% of label claim of each ingredient on the last day, meaning it’s still at declared potency 2years following production (only because they were tested at that milestone and all is still perfect, and generally no one carries more than a few months of inventory and the next lot has a new date that starts all over). Therefore, our pills and powders have a 2yr expiration, and still safe and effective to use well after the date because the only issue might be that they are a little less potent than when manufactured, but that is something that would only happen well after the published date. In the case of expired nutrition bars, the product is still safe and effective after the date but not as fresh tasting and therefore we recommend you replace it with a new lot because taste matters.   


From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Wednesday, May 1, 2024 4:33 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Contact Us


 
Name: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Phone: [PHONE]
Message: Hello, I recently purchased the “first string high performance collegiate formula” (sku1372) at a local gym. I noticed it was expired (sell by 09/23) so I returned it and asked for another one that is up to date. I was given another one that had a sticker on the bottom stating, “Lot #61977 EXP 5/8/2025”, but under that sticker it still says “sell by 09/23”. I just wanted clarification if “sell by 09/23” means it is safe to consume still and if the effects of the product may be impacted due to the length of time. If it is not recommended to consume, I ask if I am able to exchange this directly with you for one that is up to date? I really don’t want to be consuming expired products, and I am frustrated that my local gym gave me another one that has an expired “sell by” date. Any information and help would be greatly appreciated. Thank you! -[NAME] 
 

