Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. The tingling is from the beta-alanine and a well-known harmless effect that most people love because they know it’s working. It’s called paresthesia (see below from the Practitioner Dietary Supplement Reference Guide (PDSRG). Therefore, you can use the dotFIT CreatineMonohydrate by itself for your fitness goal. All this said, Berlina is here to help with your exchange.
Thanks again and have a great day.





Β-alanine Dosing
From all data to date, it appears that 3.2-7.0 g daily, divided as necessary into 800-1,600 mg servings (serving size would help avoid potential paresthesia – i.e.  generally harmless tingling135,), for a minimum of four weeks (40-60% increase in carnosine levels165) and taken with food/carbohydrate including pre-workout snack/shake,, may all contribute in reaching maximum muscle levels of carnosine, thus optimizing its buffering effect during exercise.1,31,32,144,158 Some evidence supports a lower dosage to maintain levels but that information is limited. Stegen et al. found that after 46 days of loading 3.2 g/day (4 X 800 mg), men and women were able to maintain muscle carnosine levels 30-50% above baseline using 1.2 g/d- for the remaining duration of the supplement period. To maintain maximum carnosine levels, a maintenance dose of at least 3.2-6.4 g/day may be appropriate since little research says otherwise.
Safety
As mentioned, paresthesia (tingling) is a commonly known side effect of beta-alanine in individuals ingesting more than 800 mg of BA in one dose unless using a time-released formula.135,208 If present, paresthesia generally disappears within 60 to 90 minutes following ingestion. It’s been hypothesized that BA activates Mas-related genes, or sensory neuron specific G-protein coupled receptors that reach the skin. If present, paresthesia generally affects the face, hands or neck and is dose dependent (the higher the dose, the greater chance of effect). Currently there is no data to support that this tingling is harmful in any way.31,158,185 Further, Dolan et al. produced a systematic risk assessment and meta-analysis on the use of oral BAS and potential adverse effects in 101 human and 50 animal studies. Paresthesia was the only reported side effect with supplementation relative to placebo. The review concluded that BAS “within the doses used in the available research designs, does not adversely affect those consuming it.”



 
Neal Spruce
CEO
Office. [PHONE]
Fax.     [PHONE]
Follow my podcast, SuppBeast, available on all channels!
           

From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Wednesday, October 16, 2024 2:00 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Contact Us


 
Name: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Phone: [PHONE]
Message: This is the 2nd time I tried the creatine xxl and this is the 2nd time I get a tingling sensation after consumption. Has anyone else reported similar? I would like a refund on both because this is obviously not working well with my body unfortunately. 
 

