Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. And yes, CreatineMonohydrate is a solid recommendation for someone your age, activity level (active and experienced) and goals. Therefore, I placed a program that we give to athletes such as you, that includes the Alln1 SuperBlendTM (sounds like you are using it now) and CreatineMonohydrate within a baseline dietary support program that includes your protein recommendations.
Berlinda is cc’d here if you have any questions or want more information.
Thanks again and have a great day

Performance/Size Plan & Instructions with Creatine Monohydrate in Baseline
Click on product links for a brief product description including short video
Alln1 SuperBlendTM , includes dF MVM, SAO, UPB, DE, vegan O3, 6gm fiber, 2svg veg, prebiotic, ashwagandha, turmeric, mushroom blend -30cals**
Take as directed: may take all at once or ½ in AM and ½ in PM; visit recipe section to incorporate as desired into daily lifestyle*
Super Omega 3 
 Take 2 daily with meal 
Super Calcium (read all food labels for calcium content) 
 Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food/shake intake (using FirstString or other dotFIT protein powder regularly with a typical diet, calcium intake would probably meet calcium needs without supplementing)
 If needed take 1 with a meal
FirstString (or WheySmooth depending on caloric needs/allotment)
 Take two (2) scoops 30-45 minutes before workout or use favorite dotFIT® bar for convenience.
 Take two (2) scoops after soon after workout
 Use anytime a supplement to a meal or by itself mixed with desired ingredients to add protein/calories as needed to daily requirements.
 Be sure to ingest approximately 1 gram (g) of protein per pound of lean body mass (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 4-5 times daily along with the pre/post shakes (the pre/post shakes combined generally supply 40-50 g of the daily protein requirement).
CreatineMonohydrate Loading & Maintenance Strategy 
 Mix 1 scoop (5gms) with 4-8oz of favorite fluid/shake and take 4 times daily with a protein and/or carbohydrate containing meal/drink for first 5 days. Thereafter take 1-scoop once daily to maintain stores. To help maximize creatine uptake, take with meals/drinks containing protein and/or carbohydrate
 Training days: take 1-scoop after workout with meals/drinks. May mix with your pre & post training formula
 Non-training days* take 1-scoop with and meal or shake 
*May substitute favorite dotFIT Nutrition High Protein Bar based on venue convenience
**Most popular way of consuming SB daily is mixing it with water and 25gms of vanilla WheySmooth (or vanilla FS)
Nutrition facts based on 1scoop of WS and 1scoop of Alln1 SuperBlendTM
25gms protein, 16.5gm CHO, 4gms fat, 352mg calcium, 224mg potassium, 195cals
Full days’ recommendation for: vitamins and minerals, antioxidants, probiotics, prebiotics, Ashwagandha, turmeric & mushroom blend, along with 6gms of fiber and 2 full servings of vegetables
As desired, add any fruit for the perfect one and done health habit.


From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Tuesday, May 28, 2024 7:49 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Supplements
Question: i am 68 athlete works out a lot. I tried the multivitamin powder and it seems pretty good. I am focused on building muscle as I age and need strength to ski race and play tournament tennis and bike. Does taking creatine make sense to build muscle at my age and protein supplements. what do you suggest for aging athletes. I am a director at TRX and met our ceo on the phone 6-9 months ago and we were discussing different solutions very briefly
 

