Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. Congrats on what appears to be a successful journey so far. As you are experiencing now, the closer you get to the goal the harder the work and overall planning. The good news is that is that the dotFIT program will take you all the way. 
The dotFIT program contains all your healthy bodyfat reduction needs and proper support for building/maintain lean body mass (LBM) in the process. Once in the program, simply choose the primary goal, in your case weight/bodyfat loss and input your desired bodyfat or weight reduction goal. Using the dotFIT program (it is free and if you have a trainer, you can use it together) you will have all your body composition goal needs including a personalized diet and exercise program as needed. The rate of muscle/strength gains depends on many variables such as age, training experience (the younger and less experienced the faster the gains), exercise program, nutrition including supplementation, genetics, etc. All of which the dotFIT program can guide you through in reaching your personal goal. I have cc’d Berlinda here again to connect with you in case you need more information or have questions. Moreover, to gain muscle/strength while losing bodyfat, supplementation will be the key. Therefore, below we placed a baseline dietary support program below that also contains CreatineMonohydrate and AminoFormula that is designed to feed muscle and starve bodyfat (nutrients with little/no calories). After using the baseline supplement program below, and you want to take your fitness goals further, you can use our supplement screening tool to get the proper recommendations.
Thanks again and have a great evening.


Health, Performance & Body Composition Goal Program - CM In Baseline/AF (no protein stacking)
Click on product links for a brief product description including short video
Daily:
ActiveMV - Multivitamin & Mineral Formula
Take two (2) daily: one immediately following 1st large meal; one after final meal of the day.
CreatineMonohydrate Loading & Maintenance Strategy (if you are under 175LBS you can cut the daily maintenance dose in half*  - i.e., after loading period, take a total of 5gms daily and split as described below) 
 Mix 1 scoop (5gms) with 4-8oz of favorite fluid/shake and take 4 times daily with a protein and/or carbohydrate containing meal/drink for first 5 days. Thereafter take 1-scoop twice daily to maintain stores. To help maximize creatine uptake, split doses throughout the day with meals/drinks containing protein and/or carbohydrate
 Training days: take 1-dose before workout & 1 after with meals/drinks. May mix with your pre & post training formula
 Non-training days* take 1-dose with AM meal and 1-dose with PM meal
*Programs total daily creatine first 5 days: 20gms/d. Maintenance phase: all days5-10gms.To maximize uptake, creatine intake should be spread as evenly as possible throughout the day with some protein and/or carb containing meals or shakes.
Daily as needed:
WheySmooth or other favorite dotFIT protein mix (based on caloric allotment for goal)
Use as directed to make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of LBM (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 3-5 times daily
Can be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired supporting contents) to shore up total daily protein needs
Super Calcium (read all food labels for calcium content) 
Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food/shake intake
Females take 1 or 2 daily with meals; if you need to take 2, take one with AM meal and the 2nd with PM meal; Males take 1 only if necessary
Super Omega 3 
Take 1-2 daily with meal if not consuming 8-16oz/wk fatty fish (take 1 if >8oz/wk but <16; 2 if ≤8oz); not necessary if consuming ≥16oz/wk unless for athletic recovery purposes, then increase as directed
Workout days
AminoFormula (AF) (workout days only)
Mix 1.5scoops and start drinking ~10min before workout & continue during workout finishing towards the end.
Creatine Monohydrate
On training days, use one dose before workout and one after with meals/drinks. May mix with your pre & post training formula.

Ideal mealtimes to maximize performance (keep meals within calories conducive to body composition goal)
Meal Timings
As possible eat every 4-hours
Larger pre-training/event meal 2-3Hr before training
Larger post meal ~30-60min after last post workout supplement
Early morning training
Eat a large pre-training type meal the night before
Consume only the pre-workout snack/shake before training (as shown above) & follow workout day supplement schedule above
Tournament play (multiple games/day)
<1.5Hr break: bars and hydration/electrolyte recovery drink (AminoFormula can be mixed in)
1.5-2.5Hr: small pre-training-type meal
>2.5Hr: normal pre-training meal
Fluid Recommendations* 
16 oz 2Hr before activity (extra 8-16 oz 1hr before on hot days)
4-8 oz every 20 minutes during activity
20 oz for every pound of weight loss post-activity
*If necessary (extended training sessions) use electrolyte formula and water as directed; may mix with AminoFormula





From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Tuesday, May 21, 2024 12:49 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Coaching
Question: Height 6ft, Weight 212lbs (46 years old) Currently on fitness Journey for 2.5 years Caloric intake per day average Calories 2600 protein 200g Carbs 250g fat 100g Current workout 5 day split workout with cardio of 60 min 2-3 week Down 130lbs in 2 years (lowest 195) until recently back up 17 lbs Bloodwork done every 3 months and all levels normal (started TRT 5 months ago) Building Muscle well, weight gain seems to be muscle, concerned about my path forward. Want to loose bodyfat and continue to gain strength.........Feel great but wondering what I can do better? Fyi waist size same for last 6 months. Thanks for any input, Chris
 

