Hi [CUSTOMER],
First, yes, it is always calories in versus calories when discussing a human structure losing mass. Menopause only makes it more difficult to stick to anything. Someone that struggles with sticking to a calorie deficit including staying active or have cycled gaining and losing weight, would be a potential candidate for the GLP-1 drugs, with the addition of the nutrition companion we discussed today. Hopefully by doing both (mindful the nutrition companion is designed to create the desire to want to be active and stay active) they will be able to exit the drug, and because of the nutrition companion, remain active.
Hope this helps. Let us know if you have any questions.
Have a great holiday weekend!



From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Friday, May 24, 2024 1:27 PM
To: [NAME] <[EMAIL]>; [NAME] <[EMAIL]>
Subject: GLP-1 presentation

Hi [NAME],

Good afternoon!  Thank you so much to you both for such an informative presentation.  I have 2 clients currently utilizing these drugs and several more who have asked about them, so it's great to be armed with more information. 

I didn't want to keep you all any longer, but did have a question regarding a client of mine.  I always stress the importance of calories in vs. calories out with my clients in order to be successful with weight loss. This client of mine (who I'm quite sure is not adhering to their diet) is struggling to lose weight still and says they believe it has to do with hormones post-menopause.  I know that this is what Oprah and her panel discussed on her talk show as well.  Is there any truth to this, or are they simply not sticking with the program?  Are these people who would benefit from these drugs?  In addition, is there anyone that you would recommend these drugs to, or are we better off to continue preaching calories in vs calories out?

On a separate note, I noticed that your company is based out of Westlake Village, CA and that's where my husband is from!  We're actually heading out there in a couple of weeks and I was wondering if it would be possible for me to come see your facility?  I absolutely love your products and the science behind them!  We're actually considering moving back and I was wondering, also, if there may be any opportunities with Dotfit?

Thank you so much, again, for your time.  I learned so much and can't wait to continue to learn more and to hear back from you all.  Have a beautiful Memorial Weekend!

Peace, love, and summer vibes!
Becky


Becky Michaels
[PHONE]
[EMAIL]
St. John, U.S. Virgin Islands


