Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. Mindful that we only offer non-clinical support, meaning we would not interfere with a qualified doctor’s diagnosis, treatments or medical comments. That said, the B12 cut off level is listed at 900pg/mL, so if your levels are greater than this, there may be a health issue to investigate. However, many doctors believe there is nothing amiss with levels slightly higher than this, and actually may be beneficial as long as there are no other problems at play such as liver or kidney problems. The translation is that excess B12 is either stored in the liver, present in the blood without any adverse effects, or excreted. There are no studies investigating the potential clinical effects of high B12 because, in general, there are no known adverse effects caused by elevated B12. Again, as long are no other health problems (i.e., in general if you have no symptoms, and if your other laboratory results are normal, then an isolated vitamin B12 elevation is no cause for alarm). The bottom line is you can mention this to your client, and she can do her research with her doctor, but the doctor get the last word - and hopefully the doctor confers with other colleagues that have had similar issues and solved the mystery.
Hope this helps and keep us updated.


 
Neal Spruce
CEO
Office. [PHONE]
Fax.     [PHONE]
Follow my podcast, SuppBeast, available on all channels!
           

From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Tuesday, November 5, 2024 11:35 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Supplements
Question: Hello, I have a 51 year old female client who has very elevated B12 in her blood. This is the 2nd time her doctor has said this (she has never had this before). The doctor doesn't know why. I'm not sure how much B12 one is supposed to have. Some months ago she stopped taking her previous multivitamin which had an extreme amount of B12, to see if that was the problem. We thought that was the cause of the elevated B12, because she wasn't taking anything else with B12. She has been on the Dotfit Over50 MV for around 1.5 months or so after stopping the previous multivitamin. She just got her blood checked again, but the B12 is still really elevated. She is type 2 diabetic, had pancreatitis a long time ago, and had her gallbladder removed in 2007. Do you have anything that could help with this excess of B12? Have you heard anything like this before? We are trying to get the B12 to come down because her body is holding onto a lot of it for some reason. Thank you!
 

