
The following 3 bars are certified Kosher:

Trail Mix dotBAR:
https://www.dotfit.com/trail-mix-dotbar

Double Chocolate Caramel dotBAR:
https://www.dotfit.com/double-chocolate-caramel-dotbar

Fudge Graham dotBAR:
https://www.dotfit.com/dotBAR-Fudge-Graham


We don’t have anything fully Halal certified but I do know that the creatine monohydrate used in both the CreatineMonohydrate and the ExtremeCreatineXXXL+ products are:

https://www.dotfit.com/creatine-monohydrate
https://www.dotfit.com/extreme-creatinexxxl


Let me know if you have any other questions, please.


Hey [NAME],
Connecting you here with Mauro from Crunch related to any of our products being Kosher/halal certified, including the couple bars that are. I didn’t know if there were any others since we have had some new manufactures that might automatically do it (e.g., CreatineMonohydrate and ExtremeCreatineXXXL+?). I will leave it to the 2 of you from here.
Mauro,
I also placed a related FAQ below.

Question:
Are any dotFIT products certified Kosher?
Answer: 
Most of our products are not certified kosher (we do not have a market for the expense), but that doesn’t mean they don’t follow the criteria. 
All dotFIT products are 3rd party tested (and most NSF-CS) but do not go through the Kosher certification as it adds significant cost that would have to be passed to the customer. The vast majority of our customers do not require or request the Kosher certification and therefore it’s not a necessity at this time and helps save customers a little money. That said, if our market for Kosher increases to a threshold number, we’ll entertain having a few products certified. 
As a side note:
More Info    
The only reason we don't come out with everything the way everyone would want them produced (and there are many requests including Kosher Certification), would be because at this point in time within our sport/fitness practitioner product distribution channel, we don't have a large enough respective market to produce the individually requested product in the quantities necessary to be even slightly competitive with currently available specialty product lines (or flavors) that cater to unique markets. You must produce into the 100s of thousands at one time of each product to be price competitive as we do for all other products we sell. Doing this with a unique requested particular product, because our market for that specialty/niche product is small, most of the product would expire before we sold it, leaving a huge waste and lost revenues. This is especially true with specific product flavor extensions or specialized certifications. Moreover, our licensed facilities have limited room for inventories forcing them to carry only the most popular flavors/products.






