Hey [CUSTOMER],
Nothing more than a California labeling law thing so bottom feeder attorneys can’t file frivolous lawsuits. It’s been in play for years for products sold in California but you can’t separate inventories, so it’s easier to put it on most labels, since it’s virtually meaningless and on buildings (in fine print) that sell food in California (more naturally occurring lead in 2-leaves of vegetables than any NSF-Certified supplement😊). Like all our products, MuscleDefender (Glutamine) meets and exceeds all federal and global standards for purity including parts per million (PPM) of naturally occurring lead content, but California chose to have a warning on all products regardless of meeting federal, global including NSF standards.
See the link below. It includes everything you need to know (and more) about Prop 65. Mindful it ONLY applies to California and it’s nothing more than a CYA labeling issue including posted in all California grocery stores, coffee shops, etc. (unless you are a small company, then you are exempt, which of course makes no sense). There is also a FAQ at the very bottom (once in the link) for a quick answer. Sadly, many companies have had to defend lawsuits for simply not including the Proposition notice on the label – even though the products have met all federal and global standards for natural originating compounds.
Always good to hear from you buddy. And enjoy your MuscleDefender, just as the rest of our clients and families do regularly!

https://www.dotfit.com/prop65

|  |
|  |





From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Tuesday, July 23, 2024 11:22 AM
To: [NAME] <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Clarifying Question 

Good morning, Neal!

I hope you are doing well, sir. I just wanted to reach out and ask about this new label I noticed on the Glutamine. I have attached an image for clarity. It refers to the possible exposure to lead and other harsh chemicals. This threw me off and a member who I was pitching the glutamine to actually questioned me on it. This is something that would really deter me from buying it again, to be honest, as well. I just wanted to see if you had a good explanation for that warning tag. 

Many thanks in advance for your time. 


 
Tristan Harris
SR. General Manager
 
Gold's Gym Uptown SB, Downtown SB, and Goleta
[ADDRESS]
P: [PHONE]
[EMAIL]
 
https://join.goldsgymsocal.com/
Enjoy a FREE Pass & Learn More About Gold's Gym
 

Gold’s Gym SoCal refers to an association of independently owned and operated Gold’s Gym franchises which offer each other’s members certain reciprocal benefits. Each franchise maintains its own independent corporate status, having its own officers, directors, employees and contractors, and each operates under its own separate policies and procedures. 

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This e-mail, and any attachments, are intended solely for the use of the intended recipient and may contain information that is confidential, proprietary, copyrighted and/or legally privileged. Any unauthorized disclosure, distribution, or use of this information is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient, and have received this message in error, please notify the sender immediately by reply e-mail and destroy all copies of the original message and attachments. Your compliance is appreciated. 

