
Hey [CUSTOMER],
As you mentioned it’s nothing more than an old CYA statement that has been around forever - but only in California – i.e., an old mandatory warning that has no true relevance. But below, I placed your response going forward (and an old FAQ), Please read the entire content and use as necessary for clients including the link at the bottom.

All natural substances that originated from the earth will contain some lead, just like they contain other metals that are naturally occurring in soil. Therefore, the federal government and World Health Organization (WHO) set limits on how much is allowed (i.e., parts per million [PPM]). And of course, dotFIT products are well below the set limits where most regular food products purchased at your grocery store and you consume daily are not simply because they do not have to be. If you are referring the “California only” label requirement that makes manufacturers post a warning whether the product contains lead or not, there is no problem with dotFIT products – it’s just a mandatory label requirement for California so you will see it everywhere. See below for an FAQ on the California law in case you are interested.
FAQ
Q: I see that there is a warning on certain labels for California residents only about lead (I have also seen in fine print on grocery store and coffee shop windows), saying “that certain products can expose you to chemicals including lead”. Should I be concerned.
A: Thanks for contacting us. Do not be concerned. The warnings are just a California law that has been around for a while, but now they are enforcing it on all large companies regardless of actual lead content. dotFIT products are far below the Federal, WHO and NSF lead threshold. See below for more information.

More information.
The added note is nothing more than a California labeling law thing so bottom feeder attorneys can’t file frivolous lawsuits. It’s been in play for years for products sold in California, but you can’t separate inventories, so it’s easier to put it on most labels, since it’s virtually meaningless and on buildings (in fine print) that sell food in California (more naturally occurring lead in 2-leaves of vegetables than any NSF-Certified supplement😊). Like all our products, the products you are using meets and exceeds all federal and global standards for purity including parts per million (PPM) of naturally occurring lead content, but California chose to have a warning on all products regardless of meeting federal, global including NSF standards.
See the link below. It includes everything you need to know (and more) about Prop 65. Mindful it ONLY applies to California and it’s nothing more than a CYA labeling issue including posted in all California grocery stores, coffee shops, etc. (unless you are a small company, then you are exempt, which of course makes no sense). There is also a FAQ at the very bottom (once in the link) for a quick answer. Sadly, many companies have had to defend lawsuits for simply not including the Proposition notice on the label – even though the products have met all federal and global standards for natural originating compounds. So continue to enjoy your dotFIT products,  just as the rest of our clients and families do regularly!

https://www.dotfit.com/prop65

|  |
|  |



 


