Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. The Personal Training staff at most of the Crunch Gyms have gone through the dotFIT Certification to deliver the dietary guidelines created by dietician and contained in the dotFIT nutrition program. The menus are all heart healthy and created by dieticians, meaning yes, they can deliver them to your daughter and meet regularly to monitor body composition results and adjust, as necessary. The dotFIT program contains all your non-clinical health and fitness needs including your body composition goal and exercise programming (if you have a trainer, they will use it with you). Once in the program, simply choose the goal to get started and the client/you will receive a personalized diet and exercise program that the trainer can implement.  
The caveat here is there would be no clinical support and therefore, have her doctor approve the menu plans if necessary and maintain her doctor visits as planned. We believe, your doctor would agree with putting your daughter on a meal replacement program such as shown below that is used successfully with 1000s of our members. All this said, I’m connecting you with Kat Barefield (corporate dietician and EVP of Nutritional Services), so she may communicate with the doctor and your daughter, as necessary. Once in the program, simply choose your goal to get started and you will receive a personalized program to accomplish your fitness goals.
Thanks again and have a great day and reach out to Kat, as necessary.

Meal Replacement in regular menu planning
The LeanMR Meal Replacement Program is the most popular for weight/bodyfat loss and maintenance. As shown below, the complete program is the most successful, simple and common dietary support and weight loss meal substitute/replacement program that you can incorporate into your daily meal plans. Following this simple program, will help control appetite, ease your journey and speed results while supporting health and lean body mass during weight/fat loss, and most importantly support weight maintenance. You can click here https://www.dotfit.com/MRweightlossplans for a simple ready to go solution including sample menus with proper calories, foods and LeanMR meal replacement diet integration.


Bodyfat/Weight Loss with Maintenance and Health Supplement Program
Click on links for brief product descriptions including short video
Daily:
dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender and follow label directions. If 50yrs or older use Over50 unless noted below; if female under 50 use Women’s; Males and very active females (competitive training protocols) under 50 use 2-Active, with both genders continuing use till 65yrs if still training competitively at which time every person will use Over50; children under 12yr use Kids; children 12-17yr use 1-Active. Vegans use 1-Vegan. 
LeanMR other favorite dotFIT protein mix
Use as directed within daily meal planning (see below) and to make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of lean body mass (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources divided 4-5 times daily
Can also be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired supporting contents) to shore up total daily protein needs
As needed
Super Calcium 
Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food intake (read all food labels for calcium content including protein mixes)
Females take 1 or 2 daily with meals; if you need to take 2, take one with AM meal and the 2nd with PM meal; Males take 1 only if necessary
SuperOmega 3 
Take 1-2 daily with meal if not consuming 8-16oz/wk fatty fish (take 1 if >8oz/wk but <16; 2 if ≤8oz); not necessary if consuming ≥16oz/wk unless for athletic recovery purposes, then increase as directed

Meal Replacement Integration 
Weight loss phase: 
Meal Replacements (MRs) generally supply two small meals a day and allow freedom of choice from traditional foods for the remaining allotted foods/calories. Therefore, use as two small meals within any calorie restricted meal plan of 4-5 meals since it's been shown that frequent small meals are better for weight loss than fewer larger ones especially as it relates to satiety, preservation of lean body mass (LBM) and energy levels
Get LeanMR recipes here: https://www.dotfit.com/category-cid-1868.html 
Maintenance phase 
Continue to consume 4-5 small meals daily within caloric allotment that include 2 MRs for convenience and to help ensure overall diet quality while reducing food costs.
You can go to our recipe section on the dotFIT website to get recipes with meal preparation instructions including meal replacement recipes

 


 

From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Monday, August 5, 2024 9:25 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Nutrition
Question: My 36 year old daughter has just seen a cardiologist and been told to loose 150 lbs. She is now on a beta blocker for extremely high blood pressure and is being treated for first stages of cororally artery disease. Can the nutritionist at Crunch work with her on a heart healthy diet if I can persuade her to join?
 

