Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. The answer to both your questions are no. These products, Weight Loss and Liver Support, CarbRepel and ThermAccel (TA) are all natural, not addictive, and no known contraindications in normal healthy people that are not bothered by stimulants. TA is the only product with a mild simulant effect to help boost your metabolism like caffeine. Moreover, you only use the supplements to help you achieve your goal sooner, safer, and then discontinue use when you reach your bodyfat/weight reduction goal. Millions of clients (and certified practitioners) have used these products over the years safely and with great success. See below for more information, and can click links for a brief product description including short video.
Thanks again and have a great day.


Properly integrated supplementation including adequate protein and daily Multivitamin and Mineral Formula (MVM) with products named below, accelerates the journey by filling gaps, preserving LBM, lessening/easing the workload to avoid plateaus and/or surrendering, increasing daily energy & total energy expenditure (TEE), helping manage appetite, with the bonus of supporting health by delivering higher daily nutrition within significant less calories. The products below are to be discontinued when bodyfat/weight goal is reached or the users has their eating and moving behaviors in synch with long-term success.


  
FAQs
Q: Can I take all Lean Pack 90 products daily or individually over the 90days? 
A: You can use the products as they are designed for the kit, meaning using the Weight Loss and Liver Support the first 30days; Carb Repel the second 30days and end with ThermAccel for the last 30 days for a total of 90-days. Or you can use them simultaneously if you need extra assistance or have tight timeline to lose weight since they all work by different mechanisms. Simply use each one as directed daily.

Q: Do you recommend CR (or WLLS) and ThermAccel used together if I want to boost weight/fat loss? 
A: Yes, you can use CarbRepel with ThermAccel (TA), or any of the dotFIT weight loss products such as Weight Loss and Liver Support together, and it is commonly done with people needing extra help, as each product works to support appetite and metabolism through different and unique mechanisms. Simply follow the directions on each product label. The links will take you to a brief product description including short video.


From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Thursday, February 1, 2024 6:58 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Supplements
Question: I have the LeanPak 90 but am a bit nervous about starting it. It seems like a "crutch" to lose weight, similar to the popular weight loss drugs that are everywhere now (Ozempic, etc.) I have two concerns: 1.) I don't want to become addicted / dependent on any of these for weigh control. (My concern is if I stop taking it, will I gain back any weight I lost, because the only reason the weight is off is because of the supplements.) Do any of the three supplements (Liver Support, CarbRepel, ThermAccel) have addictive properties? 2.) Are there any side effects that are detrimental? Thank you! 
 

