Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. The times you eat are not as important as how much you eat at the meals (the daily calories including in the meals before and after the workout) and that amount depends on your primary body composition goal (gain muscle, lose bodyfat, et.,). However, meal timing around the workout would be similar regardless of the goal. Therefore, have your largest meal of the day ~2-3.5 hours before your workout and have a protein shake (with a little carbohydrate) ~30min before the workout. Then have your dinner (last meal) within ~60/90min following your workout. Go to bed at whatever time that will get you ~8hours of good sleep. See below for mealtimes for exercisers. We also placed the dietary support program we give everyone whether they exercise or not so that they have their nutrition needs shored up to help recover from daily life activities and stay within the calories they need to support a healthy body composition and weight. Your individualized supplement program can expand as necessary as you approach your goals. 
Thanks again and have a great day/night.
  
Baseline Dietary Support for all Sport & Fitness Goals
(Click on product links for a brief product description including short video)
Daily:
dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender. If 50yrs or older use Over50 unless noted below; if female under 50 use Women’s; Males and very active females (competitive training protocols) under 50 use 2-Active, with both genders continuing use till 65yrs if still training competitively at which time every person will use Over50; children under 12yr use Kids; children 12-17yr use 1-Active). Pure Vegans, use VeganMV
Take as directed with meals
WheySmooth or other favorite dotFIT protein mix (based on caloric allotment for goal)
Use as directed to make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of LBM (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 3-5 times daily
Can be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired supporting contents) to shore up total daily protein needs
As needed:
Super Calcium (read all food labels for calcium content including dotFIT protein shakes)*
Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food/shake intake
Females take 1 or 2 daily with meals; if you need to take 2, take one with AM meal and the 2nd with PM meal; Males take 1 only if necessary
Super Omega 3 
Take 1-2 daily with meal if not consuming 8-16oz/wk fatty fish (take 1 if >8oz/wk but <16; 2 if ≤8oz); not necessary if consuming ≥16oz/wk unless for athletic recovery purposes, then increase as directed
*All food labels including Protein Powders must contain calcium levels by serving so always check
Workout Days:
WheySmooth or other favorite dotFIT protein mix
Take 1scoop ~30-40 minutes before workout
Take 1-scoop immediately following workout
Ideal mealtimes to maximize performance (keep meals within calories conducive to body composition goal)
Meal Timings 
As possible eat every 4-hours
Larger pre-training/event meal 2-3Hr before training
Larger post meal ~30-60min after last post workout supplement
Early morning training
Eat a large pre-training type meal the night before
Consume only the pre-workout snack/shake before training (as shown above) & follow workout day supplement schedule above
Tournament play (multiple games)
<1.5Hr break: bars and hydration/electrolyte recovery drink
1.5-2.5Hr: small pre-training-type meal
>2.5Hr: normal pre-training meal
Fluid Recommendations* 
16 oz 2Hr before activity (extra 8-16 oz 1hr before on hot days)
4-8 oz every 20 minutes during activity
20 oz for every pound of weight loss post-activity
*If necessary (extended training sessions) use electrolyte formula and water as directed; may mix with AminoFormula
 

From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Tuesday, May 7, 2024 10:40 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Nutrition
Question: If I work out between the hours of 530pm - 6pm, when should I eat dinner. When should I go to bed after eating dinner?
 

