Hi [CUSTOMER]
You can use the same dotFIT program muscle gain. Simply choose the goal as Muscle gain and input your desired lean body mass (LBM) gain. Using the dotFIT program (it is free and if you have a trainer, you can use it together) you will have all your muscle gain needs including a personalized diet and exercise program. The rate of muscle gain depends on many variables such as age, training experience (the younger and less experienced the faster the gains), exercise program, nutrition including supplementation, genetics, etc. All of which the dotFIT program can guide you through in reaching your personal goal (see below). I have cc’d Berlinda here again to connect with you in case you need more information or have questions.
Thanks again and have a great day.

More Muscle gain information
Everything you need to gain healthy weight/muscle is contained in the dotFIT program (free of charge), which will take you only a few minutes to get your answers including necessary calories based on your size, goal and activity level. I have placed a baseline dietary support program below that all our athletes start with to make sure you recover properly from your muscle gain training daily activities and meet your nutrient and calorie needs. The program below including meal timing, will feed your muscle while controlling bodyfat, and also contains your pre & post workout protein/carb supplement, critical to your recovery. After using the baseline supplement program below, and you want to take your fitness goals further, you can use our supplement screening tool to get the proper recommendations. Reach out to one of our phone coaches (Berlinda is cc’d here) for more information, questions or help getting started.
Using the dotFIT Program: All your fitness needs including menu plans and achieving your body composition goal is contained in the dotFIT program (if you have a trainer, you can both use it). Go to the dotFIT home page and log in (using the icon in far upper right corner) and you will come to this page: http://www.dotfit.com/new-user-register (You may just click this link for now). From there simply follow instructions creating your program and setting your goal. Once you enter your personal statistics and goal, you’ll have all you need including diet (and exercise program if needed). Every week when you update your measurements/weight or bodyfat, the program will automatically tell you what to do to stay on goal.
 
Performance/Size Plan & Instructions with Creatine Monohydrate in Baseline (under 175LBS)
Click on product links for a brief product description including short video
ActiveMV - Multivitamin & Mineral Formula
 Take two (2) daily: one immediately following 1st large meal; one after final meal of the day.
Super Omega 3 
 Take 2 daily with meal 
Super Calcium (read all food labels for calcium content) 
 Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food/shake intake (using FirstString or other dotFIT protein powder regularly with a typical diet, calcium intake would probably meet calcium needs without supplementing)
 If needed take 1 with a meal
FirstString
 Take two (2) scoops 30-45 minutes before workout or use favorite dotFIT® bar for convenience.
 Take two (2) scoops 20-30 minutes after post workout AminoFormula dose.
 Use anytime throughout the day as a supplement to a meal or by itself mixed with desired ingredients to add protein/calories as needed to daily requirements.
 Be sure to ingest approximately 1 gram (g) of protein per pound of lean body mass (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 4-5 times daily along with the pre/post shakes (the pre/post shakes combined generally supply 50-60 g of the daily protein requirement).
CreatineMonohydrate Loading & Maintenance Strategy 
 Mix 1 scoop (5gms) with 4-8oz of favorite fluid/shake and take 4 times daily with a protein and/or carbohydrate containing meal/drink for first 5 days. Thereafter take 1-scoop once daily to maintain stores. To help maximize creatine uptake, split doses throughout the day with meals/drinks containing protein and/or carbohydrate
 Training days: take 1-scoop after before or after your workout with meals/drinks. May mix with your pre & post training formula
 Non-training days* take 1-scoop with meal or shake 
*May substitute favorite dotFIT Nutrition High Protein Bar based on venue convenience
*May substitute favorite dotFIT Nutrition High Protein Bar based on venue convenience
Meal Timings
As possible eat every 4-hours
Large pre-training/event meal 2-3Hr before training
Large post meal ~30-60min after last post workout supplement
Early morning training
Eat a large pre-training type meal the night before
Consume only the pre-workout snack/shake before training (as shown above) & follow workout day supplement schedule above
Tournament play (multiple games)
<1.5Hr break: bars and hydration/electrolyte recovery drink
1.5-2.5Hr: small pre-training-type meal
>2.5Hr: normal pre-training meal
Fluid Recommendations* 
16 oz 2Hr before activity (extra 8-16 oz 1hr before on hot days)
4-8 oz every 20 minutes during activity
20 oz for every pound of weight loss post-activity
*Use electrolyte formula (e.g. Gatorade) and water as directed


From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Tuesday, January 23, 2024 10:43 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Muscle Gain
Question: Hello 38 yr old male here. Former pro fighter, coach and personal trainer. Over the last couple of years I've largely let my fitness regimen go, as of March last year i stopped working out completely. Looking to ease my way back into lifting to put back on much of the muscle I've lost. Covid in 2022 drained a lot of my weight. Looking for suggestions on supplements and food intake, possibly a workout protocol to help me on the way back to being fit. Currently 160 lbs (wanting to get back up to 175-180) and 5'10.
 

