Hi [CUSTOMER],
No worries in contacting me. This is an easy one for you. First tell him to put away the supplements he is using so you can give him what the professionals use. From there, use your fibr-Pro link to get him the Muscle gain level-2 bundle that contains the ActiveMV, CreatineMonohydrate and the FirstString protein. Put together the order using your link and it’s on its way to his shipping address (I believe Nelson showed you how) and you will get your revenue share. I have placed the program and instructions below. I also included the weight gain weekly instructions and ideal mealtimes for gaining lean body mass (LBM). His calorie intake sound about right for now, but read below to see how to adjust them as he continues to gain muscle (if not using the dotFIT program, just see the yellow shaded part of the instructions). If you need any further help using your fibr-Pro link, I have cc’d Mark Rowland here (Director of fibr-Pro Services) to make sure you have everything you need.
Have a great weekend!

Level-2 Sport Health, Activity Recovery, Performance & Muscle Gain Program
Click on product links for a brief product description including short video
Daily:
ActiveMV 
Take 2 daily, one with AM meal and one with PM meal
CreatineMonohydrate Loading & Maintenance* Strategy 
Mix 1 scoop (5gms) with 4-8oz of favorite fluid/shake and take 4 times daily with a protein and/or carbohydrate containing meal/drink for first 5 days. Thereafter take 1-scoop twice daily to maintain stores. To help maximize creatine uptake, split doses throughout the day with meals/drinks containing protein and/or carbohydrate
Training days: 1 dose before workout & 1 after with meals/drinks. May mix with your pre & post training formula
Non-training days take 1-dose with AM meal and 1-dose with PM meal
Daily as needed:
FirstString
Use as directed to make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of LBM (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 3-5 times daily
If exercising, use ~25gm 30-40min before workout & repeat same dose immediately following exercise
Can be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired supporting contents) to shore up total daily protein needs
Workout days
FirstString  
Take as directed (25gm protein) 30-40min before workout & repeat immediately post exercise
Creatine Monohydrate
On training days, use one dose before workout and one after with meals/drinks. May mix with your pre & post training formula

Ideal mealtimes to maximize performance (keep meals within calories conducive to body composition goal)
Meal Timings 
As possible eat every 4-hours
Larger pre-training/event meal 2-3Hr before training
Larger post meal ~30-60min after last post workout supplement
Early morning training
Eat a large pre-training type meal the night before
Consume only the pre-workout snack/shake before training (as shown above) & follow workout day supplement schedule above
Tournament play (multiple games)
<1.5Hr break: bars and hydration/electrolyte recovery drink
1.5-2.5Hr: small pre-training-type meal
>2.5Hr: normal pre-training meal
Fluid Recommendations* 
16 oz 2Hr before activity (extra 8-16 oz 1hr before on hot days)
4-8 oz every 20 minutes during activity
20 oz for every pound of weight loss post-activity
*If necessary (extended training sessions) use electrolyte formula and water as directed; may mix with AminoFormula

Weight/Muscle Gain Instructions
Using the dotFIT program
All your muscle gain needs including menu plans and keeping body fat down are contained in the dotFIT program (if you have a trainer, you can both use it). Go to the dotFIT home page and log in (using the icon in far upper right corner) and you will come to this page: http://www.dotfit.com/new-user-register (You may just click this link for now). From there simply follow instructions creating your program and setting your goal. Once you enter your personal statistics and goal, you’ll have all you need including diet. Every week when you update your measurements/weight/bodyfat, the program will automatically tell you what to do to stay on goal. There is also a complete exercise program you can use to create the proper program to accomplish your goal – and again, just answer the simple questions including entering your goal, and your exercise program will be created. However, if possible, we recommend one of our trainers to help you get started.
Weight/Muscle gain
For aggressive weight/muscle gain, you can plug into the program a 1lb/week gain and follow directions at each weekly weigh-in update as they will be the same as shown below based on weekly results.
In order to simultaneously increase weight/muscle and performance: males may gain up to one-half pound per week and females up to one-quarter pound per week. Beginning exercisers, children and growing teens may gain more. Additionally, if performance is not the focus, meaning size increase is the priority, you can add more calories than shown below to attempt to gain the desired weight slightly quicker. Make sure your daily diet contains at least 1gm of protein for each pound of lean body mass (LBM) divided 4-6 times a day including before and after training as shown in you supplement recommendation.
Total daily calorie intake should be moderately above current expenditure (dotFIT program will automatically create the right menus, and chose the “Athletic Menu” to use as a guideline). If weight gain does not occur as described, you may add roughly 100 to 250 calories to your daily total (based on body size) consisting of equal amounts of carbohydrates and protein and moderate fat. For example, 20 g protein, 20 g carbohydrate, 10 g fat equaling 250 calories. If preferred, use your shakes or snacks to supply extra calories. Following the addition of extra calories, if after one week weight gain does not occur, repeat the above process*. All this is automatically taken care of using your dotFIT program.
*If body fat or overall weight increases undesirably, slightly reduce daily caloric intake or add a preferred form of aerobic exercise until you achieve your desired weight trend.




From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Saturday, June 29, 2024 9:37 AM
To: [NAME] <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Advice for client

Hi [NAME],

Good afternoon!  I hope that this email finds you well.

I was wondering if it's okay to ask your advice on a new client that I have.  He is in his early 40's, is 6'7", ~196-200lbs, and is looking to gain about 20lbs of lean muscle.  I did a full nutrition consultation for him this morning and we have our first training session and follow-up nutrition consult for Monday afternoon.  He says he's eating about 3500-4000 kcal/day.  He showed me the supplements he's using, which I'm not familiar with, but he did admit his muscle gainer wasn't rated the best.  It's called Naked Mass?  He's also using Bob's Red Mill Whey protein.  I did tell him that when looking for supplements, it's important to know the company that produces them and see what studies and testing they have to back their products.  I also told him about how important third party testing is as well.  This, of course, led me to recommending Dot Fit, but want to provide him with the best recommendation for his goals.  Which ones would you suggest?

As far as the gym is concerned, he is pretty active and works out about 5-6 days per week with 4 of those being split training for about 2 hours each.  He is limited with his at home weights so I'm bringing him to the gym for a hypertrophy session, because I believe what he's doing right now is more conducive to strength endurance per the OPT model.  

I really appreciate your advice in advance-if you don't have the time, I totally understand.  I just primarily work with women for weight loss so this is newer to me and I want to make sure I'm giving the most sound advice possible.

Best,
[NAME]


Becky Michaels
[PHONE]
[EMAIL]
St. John, U.S. Virgin Islands


