Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. An active athlete such as you, should follow a minimum dietary supplement program as shown below to recover, remain active and stave off the inevitable (age-related loss of performance). By the way, you would never want supplements in a gummy matrix for the simple reason no one has mastered using that delivery system to keep ingredients stable or put multiple components together in one supplement. Follow the program below and when ready to go to the next level, let us know. Berlinda is cc’d here for any questions or more information.
Thanks again and have a great weekend!

Level 1 with Alln1 SuperBlendTM (making it level-1+) – Health/Performance in Baseline
Click on product links for a brief product description including short video
Daily:
Alln1 SuperBlendTM  (SB) See slides for all-natural full health formula & rationale (you could use the Over50MV for the Multivitamin and Mineral Formula (MVM) , but the SB includes your complete MVM and gives you lots more, as shown below, for recovery and healthy aging).
Take as directed: May take all at once or ½ in AM and ½ in PM; visit recipe section to incorporate as desired into daily lifestyle*
SuperOmega-3 
Take 2 daily with meal or SB anytime

FirstString (FS)1
 Take 2-scoops 30-45 minutes before workout or use favorite dotFIT® bar for convenience.
 Take 2-scoops 20-30 immediately after workout
 Use anytime throughout the day as a supplement to a meal or by itself mixed with desired ingredients to add protein/calories as needed to daily requirements.
 Be sure to ingest approximately 1gm of protein per pound of lean body mass (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 4-5 times daily along with the pre/post shakes (the pre/post shakes combined generally supply 40-50gm of the daily protein requirement).

Daily as needed:
Super Calcium (read all food labels for calcium content) 
 Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food/shake intake (using FirstString or other dotFIT protein powder regularly with a typical diet, calcium intake would probably meet calcium needs without supplementing)
 If needed take 1 with a meal

1May substitute favorite dotFIT Nutrition High Protein Bar based on venue convenience

* Most popular way of consuming SB daily is mixing it with water and 25gms of vanilla WheySmooth (or FS)
Nutrition facts based on 1scoop of WS and 1scoop of Alln1 SuperBlendTM
25gms protein, 16.5gm CHO, 4gms fat, 352mg calcium, 224mg potassium, 190cals (325 with FS)
Full days’ recommendation for: vitamins and minerals, antioxidants, probiotics, prebiotics, Ashwagandha, turmeric & mushroom blend, along with 6gms of fiber and 2 full servings of vegetables
As desired, add any fruit for the perfect one and done health habit  


From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Friday, March 8, 2024 11:33 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Nutrition
Question: I came across your website from "Certified for Sports". I'm a 63 y.o. male runner. I'm looking for a multivitamin (and any other supplement) for senior males, while also helping with muscle repair from running (I run ~25 miles a week). Preference is gummies, but not a big deal either way, though I would like it to be still certified for sports. Thank you.
 

