Hi [CUSTOMER],
See below for ideal full stacking (I also attached a slide). You can alter to your liking as far as how you consume all, as long as the doses and timing are maintained. If you have already started using creatine, just use the maintenance dose shown in the chart (5-10gms/day). If you only need 5gms because you are under 175LBS, just use the CreatineXXXL/NO7 daily to maintain creatine levels. The only time you would add CreatineMonhydrate only, would be if you are over 175LBS otherwise the CreatineXXXL twice daily (or CreatineXXXL once and NO7 once) will supply your full creatine needs.
Hope this helps 



Adult Super Stack Performance & Size Supplement Plan (NO7Rage, ExtremeCreatineXXXL & CM)
Click on product links for a brief product description including short video
Active Multivitamin Mineral Formula
 Take two (2) daily: one (1) immediately following first large meal and one (1) after final meal of the day.
SuperOmega-3
 Take 1-2 daily with meal if not consuming 8-16oz/wk fatty fish (take 1 if >8oz/wk but <16; 2 if ≤8oz); not necessary if consuming ≥16oz/wk unless for athletic recovery purposes, then increase as directed
FirstString (or WheySmooth depending on daily calorie allotment)
 Take two (2) scoops 30-45 minutes before workout or use favorite dotFIT® bar for convenience.
 Take two (2) scoops 20-30 minutes after post workout AminoFormula dose
 Use anytime throughout the day as a supplement to a meal or by itself mixed with desired ingredients to add protein/calories as needed to meet daily requirements.
Be sure to ingest approximately one (1) g of protein per pound of lean body mass (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 4-5 times daily along with the pre/post shakes (the pre/post shakes combined generally supply 50-80 g of the daily requirement)  
AminoFormula (AF) (workout days only)
 Take one scoop approximately 10 minutes before workout (add to NO7Rage if using this product – see below). You may continue to drink during workout.
 Take one (1) scoop immediately following workout.
 Or use both scoops and start ingesting 10min before workout and consume at a pace so it’s finished at end of activity
Begin Creatine Supplementation at 2nd Week of Program
2nd Week Start CreatineMonohydrate (CrM)*
 Loading phase: mix one (1) scoop (5 g) with 4-8 oz of favorite fluid/shake and take four (4) times daily with a protein and/or carbohydrate containing meal/drink for first five (5) days.
On training days, use one dose before workout and one after with meals/drinks. May mix with your pre/post training formula.
 Maintenance phase: after five (5) day loading phase:
On training days Take one (1) scoop daily with post workout shake.
On non-training days take 1scoop with any meal when not taking ECX (i.e., use ECX at different times so total creatine is evenly dispersed throughout the day)
Persons <175LBS can discontinue CrM dosing when starting ECX, b/c ECX daily dosing will maintain CrM stores
Add ExtremeCreatineXXXL (ECX)on 6th day of 2nd Week
Two (2) scoops supply 3.2 g of beta-alanine (BA), 5 g of creatine monohydrate and 7 g of L-glutamine
  Take 2-scoops daily. Take with some protein and/or carbs but within allotted calories based on body composition goal.
Training days: take one (1) scoop before training with pre-workout full meal (generally 2-3 hours pre-workout). If not possible based on early training, take with pre-workout shake. Take remaining dose (1 scoop) any time with meal or shake when not taking a CreatineMonohydrate dose to help evenly spread total creatine intake throughout the day
Non-training days: 1-scoop with morning meal or shake and 1-scoop with evening meal or shake
Add NO7Rage at 4th week (workout days only)
 Take 1.5-2.5 scoops depending on body weight (caffeine sensitivity- start with 1.5 and increase to recommended dose if not uncomfortably affected by caffeine) approximately 10 minutes before workout (may mix with AF and continue to consume during workout). See directions on label for weight dosages.
NO7Rage contains 150mg of caffeine per scoop. As a reference: Starbucks Grande-drip coffee contains ~330 mg of caffeine, close to the same amount in two (2) scoops of NO7Rage.
Total daily creatine for this plan: Loading phase 20 g/d. Thereafter until fourth week 10g/d (or 5g if <175LBS). At fourth week on workout days 12.5-15g/day and 10g on non-workout days (half this if <175LBS). Total BA intake 6.2- 8.2 g/day on workout days 3.2 g on non-workout days. To maximize uptake, creatine intake should be spread as evenly as possible throughout the day and around the workout as described and ingested with some carbohydrates and/or protein.




From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Thursday, July 25, 2024 11:52 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Supplements
Question: I’m looking at the stacking for Aminos, Creatine Mono, CreatineXXXL, and NO7 (once done with loading phase). To clarify, it suggests Aminos, XXXL, AND NO7 before the workout? With pre/post shake? Seems like a lot. This correct?
 

