From: [CUSTOMER]
Sent: Tuesday, January 16, 2024 11:15 AM
To: [EMAIL]
Subject: RE: dotFIT - Ask the Experts

Hi [NAME],
Thanks for contacting us. Below is the supplement program with short descriptions including proper usage, that our expert trainers use for their clients with goals similar to yours (lose bodyfat, gain muscle and control appetite). With this program you will be feeding muscle while starving bodyfat.
Thanks again and have a great New Year.



Level-1 for Fast Results & Daily Recovery with Meal Replacement/Substitute Integration Program
Click on product links for a brief product description including short video
Daily:
dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender If 50yrs or older use Over50 unless noted below; if female under 50 use Women’s; Males and very active females (competitive training protocols) under 50 use 2-Active, with both genders continuing use till 65yrs if still training competitively at which time every person will use Over50; All vegans use VeganMV 
Take as directed with meals
Weight Loss & Liver Support
Take 3 daily as directed. 1- before each of 3 meals or evenly split throughout the day
LeanMR (protein and fiber rich meal replacement formula) 
Use as directed within daily meal planning (see below) and to make sure you get ~1 gram of protein per pound of lean body mass (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources divided 4-5 times daily depending on preference
Can also be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired ingredients) to shore up total daily protein needs
Workout Days:
AminoFormula (AF)
Take 1-scoop ~10 minutes before and may continue to drink during first 20 minutes of workout
Take 1-scoop immediately following workout


Meal Replacement/Substitute Integration
You may also click here for a simple ready to go solution including sample menus with proper calories, foods and LeanMR meal replacement diet integration
Weight Loss Phase:
Meal Replacements (MRs) generally supply two small meals a day and allow freedom of choice from traditional foods for the remaining allotted foods/calories. Therefore, use as two small meals within any calorie restricted meal plan of 4-5 meals since frequent meals are often better for bodyfat/weight reduction than fewer larger ones especially as it relates to satiety, preservation of lean body mass (LBM) and energy levels. LeanMR recipes are available here
Maintenance Phase 
Continue to consume 4-5 small meals daily within caloric allotment that includes 2 MRs for convenience and to help ensure overall diet quality while reducing food costs. A wide variety of healthy recipes including meal replacement recipes are available here








From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Tuesday, January 16, 2024 3:45 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Supplements
Question: Hi, I’m looking to see what supplements can help achieve my goal. I want to lose some weight, gain muscle and not feel hungry every 2-3 hours. What can you recommend?
 

