Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. The quick answer is to keep taking your Over50MV (unless you have an unusual contraindicated medical condition) since it was designed by vitamin and mineral researchers to complement the western diets in industrialized nations. In other words, not just to fill gaps but to also offer protection against the common maladies of aging. All due respect to the dietician oncologist that you are following, we are sure she is an expert in her field (probably not vitamin and mineral research) and possibly generalized the statement, because there are many minerals and some vitamins (e.g., Vitamin K, folate [Vitamin B9]) that should not be 200% above the RDAs/DRIs.
The bottom line is that the nutrient RDAs in the DRIs including Daily Values, are set/designed to correct deficiencies, and not meant to be optimal. Moreover, the safe and optimal range is well above the RDAs for many vitamins (e.g., C, D, E, B-vitamins, etc.,) and some minerals, but never over the Tolerable Upper Intake Levels (UL), which is the end range (see chart).
The daily amounts of vitamins and minerals currently known as the safe and optimal range, are captured the peer review referenced Practitioner's Dietary Supplement Reference Guide (PDSRG) and contained within those documented amounts in the dotFIT formulas - - design of the Multivitamin and Mineral Formula (MVM))
 Feel free to send all the peer review information to anyone you would like to share it with and see below for more information.
Thanks again and have a great weekend.

More information on vitamin and minerals daily intakes above the RDAs
The bottom line is that the nutrient RDAs in the DRIs including Daily Values, are set/designed to correct deficiencies, and not meant to be optimal. Moreover, the safe and optimal range is well above the RDAs for many vitamins (e.g., C, D, E, most B-vitamins, etc.,) and some minerals, but never over the Tolerable Upper Intake Levels (UL), which is the end range (see chart after clicking into link below).
Current evidence-based supplemental amounts of vitamins and minerals for active individuals that support long and short-term health are contained in the dotFIT formulas including the Alln1 SuperBlendTM, especially the primary antioxidant vitamins C and E. Further, none of the ingredients are at or over the known ULs (they are all in the known established safe and optimal range). The complete rational for each ingredient is from the world’s leading experts and found in the  Practitioner's Dietary Supplement Reference Guide (PDSRG) that is used for certification and practitioner education (not consumer facing). All references are from peer review published research and the formulas 3rd party tested including most having an additional NSF Certified for sport (meaning it also meets all worldwide safety regulations). The product is formulated by the experts at dotFIT (See below). Feel free to send the information links to your customer or dietician. The content will be a good education for the inquisitive person. Have your contact click on the appropriate links that explain the design of the Multivitamin and Mineral Formula (MVM) and then they can click on links to the peer-review referenced article that sets the foundation found in the PDSRG document. The non-vitamin antioxidant (lycopene, lutein, zeaxanthin, CoQ10, Alph lipoic acid) ingredient peer review supporting research is found here. Always feel free to contact our VP of Nutrition services and Corporate Dietician, Kat Barefield (cc’d here), after reading and processing all the peer review research and still have questions. There is also an abbreviated PDSRG version of the Alln1 SuperBlendTM (click here) taken from the full deep-dive PDSRG, mindful that the complete rational is in the full PDSRG and where this person should go first and fully study. And always be mindful that the Nutrient RDAs/DV, as defined by science, are set to prevent deficiencies only, not meant to be optimal – especially in industrialized nations.

3rd Party Tested & NSF Certified for Sport Dietary Supplements
dotFIT is Evidence Based* 24/7 Support with Practitioner Products Only
dotFIT Worldwide is R&D company that delivers holistic evidence-based programming, products and support to over 1700 Sport/Fitness & Health Facilities, and over 50,000 sport & fitness professionals
 
#1 Recommended and Used Dietary Supplements in the Sport & Fitness Channels including college and professional sports
If you are looking for health, performance and fitness support with Practitioner Products only (not found in consumer channels and sold through professionals) and want full product disclosure (rationale for use, mechanisms of action, safety, contraindications, etc.) you can click the link to the dotFIT Practitioner's Dietary Supplement Reference Guide (PDSRG) that is used by all our sport, fitness and health professionals and published by our Scientific Advisory Board and R&D team. The first section describes everything around criteria, recommendation, testing and manufacturing processes. All products are 3rd party tested and specific dotFIT health and performance products are also NSF Certified for Sport (NSFCS). Peer review quality documents for individual products are found in their respective categories. dotFIT is a research and development company for sport, fitness and health professionals, therefore, all programs/products must pass our Evidence-Based Advisory and Legal Committee Rules including 3rd party testing procedures such as Health Canada, NSF and mandatory audited GMPs. Individual products can be found in respective sections. PDSRG (used for formulation safety and efficacy rationale, certification and education purposes, not consumer facing and located in the certified practitioner console).
*Evidence based: sport and fitness/weight control solutions (or clinical decisions) that represent the best available evidence and supported by the consensus of their respective scientific community
Takeaway
You need both: 1) documentation that doses/forms match positive clinical trials found in the practitioner dietary supplement reference guide (PDSRG) i.e., submitted documentation
 and 2) 3rd party testing to make sure its in the product at that dosage (Ref)
dotFIT Difference video – all consumers (6min)

From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Friday, September 20, 2024 8:07 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Contact Us


 
Name: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Phone: [PHONE]
Message: I've been following an oncology dietitian. she suggest that vitamin supplements should not exceed 200% of your daily recommendations. I've been taking the over 50 MV. On the label the B1, B2, B6 and B12 vitamins all exceed 200% with B12 being 2083%. Why are these so high? 
 

