Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us and congrats on getting to the gym! Whenever possible, you should start with a certified trainer for your exercise needs. In the dotFIT licensed facilities the trainers are highly qualified certified trainers that also include your nutrition needs matched to your goals. You can use this club finder http://www.dotfit.com/ClubFinder.aspx to find a facility in your neighborhood and they will use the dotFIT program for your nutrition needs.
Alternately, if a club visit or training session with one of our trainers is not a viable option, you can receive all your diet, supplement and health, exercise, fat loss or muscle gain needs online from the dotFIT program. Go to the dotFIT home page and log in (using the icon in far upper right corner) and you will come to this page: http://www.dotfit.com/new-user-register (You may just click this link for now). From there simply follow instructions creating your program and setting your goal (select weight/bodyfat loss in your case). Once you enter your personal statistics and goal, you’ll have all you need including personalized diet. Every week when you update your measurements/weight or bodyfat, the program will automatically tell you what to do to stay on goal including proper dietary support to feed muscle and starve bodyfat. 
We also placed the baseline dietary support program everyone should use regardless of their fitness goal, so that you have your nutrition needs shored up to help recover from daily life activities and stay within the calories you need to support a healthy body composition and weight. After using the baseline supplement program below, and you want to take your fitness goals further, you can use our supplement screening tool to get the proper recommendations.
I have cc’d Berlinda here again to connect with you to help get you started.
Thanks again and have a great day.

Baseline Dietary Support for all Sport & Fitness Goals
(Click on product links for a brief product description including short video)
Daily:
dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender. If 50yrs or older use Over50 unless noted below; if female under 50 use Women’s; Males and very active females (competitive training protocols) under 50 use 2-Active, with both genders continuing use till 65yrs if still training competitively at which time every person will use Over50; children under 12yr use Kids; children 12-17yr use 1-Active). Pure Vegans, use VeganMV
Take as directed with meals
WheySmooth or other favorite dotFIT protein mix (based on caloric allotment for goal)
Use as directed to make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of LBM (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 3-5 times daily
Can be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired supporting contents) to shore up total daily protein needs
As needed:
Super Calcium (read all food labels for calcium content including dotFIT protein shakes)*
Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food/shake intake
Females take 1 or 2 daily with meals; if you need to take 2, take one with AM meal and the 2nd with PM meal; Males take 1 only if necessary
Super Omega 3 
Take 1-2 daily with meal if not consuming 8-16oz/wk fatty fish (take 1 if >8oz/wk but <16; 2 if ≤8oz); not necessary if consuming ≥16oz/wk unless for athletic recovery purposes, then increase as directed
*All food labels including Protein Powders must contain calcium levels by serving so always check
Workout Days:
WheySmooth or other favorite dotFIT protein mix
Take 1scoop ~30-40 minutes before workout
Take 1-scoop immediately following workout

From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Thursday, May 9, 2024 7:04 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Weight Loss
Question: I’m 6’1 295lbs and currently trying to lose fat, I drink plenty of water though the day and try to get 15k steps in, I’m going to start my diet tomorrow and plan on increasing my protein intake to 200g because I’m going to start going to the gym, if anyone could give me some advice on what else I should do
 

