Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. We do an entire class on plateaus, knowing that the only way to keep losing bodyfat is to be in an energy deficit. This means if your client is not losing weight/bodyfat then they are not in deficit regardless of their personal math. 
We are doing a class for Crunch Corporate on Jan 11th at 11AM PST that includes myth busting and changing body composition until you reach your goal. It is the 3rd part of a 3 part series, but also summarizes the first 2. I have cc’d Berlinda here to invite you to join by sending you a link. There will also be a recording available later. This will give you the information you need to handle any plateau problem. In the meantime, below we placed the answer to continuing losing bodyfat as you measure the client on weekly or bi-weekly measurement days.
Thanks again and hope to see you on the webinar.
Diet Monitoring & Adjustments for Bodyfat Reduction
Program Algorithms

Adjustments: 
Measurable or visual reduction in body fat and/or weight proceeds in a consistent manner, e.g. a decrease in circumference inches, and/or the desired average decrease in body fat per week
If progress stops or slows dramatically, use one or combination of adjustments to re-start the process:
Increase daily activities (e.g., daily steps or other non-athletic/exercise activities)
Standing and pacing burns 1.5-2 times more calories than sitting for the same period
There are approximately 2000-2500 steps (depending on stride length) in a mile. Walking 2000 steps will burn ~75-150 more calories (depending on individual size) than sitting for the same time, takes ~20-30min and can be done anywhere, even in the office, while on the phone or watching TV
Increase cardio workout time and/or intensity and include interval training if necessary
Ex: if doing 30 minutes 5D/WK, go to 45min and add interval work within the time frame
Decrease food intake approximately 200 to 300 calories per day or remove a small portion (carbs/fats) of largest meal other than pre-workout meal (incorporate 3-days low/1-high as necessary)
Add  dietary support beyond baseline as necessary (thermogenic, energy partitioning, appetite control, etc.)
Repeat the process any time body fat is stable for at least one week. Always remember if you are supplementing properly and you stop losing fat, you need to eat less, move/burn more or a combination of the two regardless of what you read or hear from others. As you lower calorie intake, make sure your protein intake stays at or above 1gm per pound of body weight to protect LBM.




From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Monday, January 8, 2024 10:39 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Weight Loss
Question: How can I explain to a client why they are not losing weight if they are under their caloric intake goal? What some things should I be looking at if they are exercising 4-5x week (including cardio)? Carb intake is high however I read that doesn't necessary keep one from losing weight.
 

