Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. It is better not to use any stimulants (ThermAccel has a thermogenic/stimulant blend) with someone that has high blood pressure and using beta-blockers unless a doctor has okay it. The Weight Loss & Liver Support (WLLS) product is a non-stimulant bodyfat reduction support product that should be fine but make sure the doctor signs off (they usually do). 
If necessary, you can give the doctor this link to the Practitioner Dietary Supplement Reference Guide (PDSRG), which is used for training and certifications purposes only (not consumer facing), and click on WeightLoss&LiverSupport to get the peer review science related to all ingredients in the WLLS. Below, we also placed the WLLS in the meal replacement/substitute program as it is successfully used for bodyfat reduction.
Thanks again and have a great day.


Level-1 for Fast Results & Daily Recovery with Meal Replacement/Substitute Integration Program
Click on product links for a brief product description including short video
Daily:
dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender and follow label directions. If 50yrs or older use Over50 unless noted below; if female under 50 use Women’s; Males and very active females (competitive training protocols) under 50 use 2-Active, with both genders continuing use till 65yrs if still training competitively at which time every person will use Over50; children under 12yr use Kids; children 12-17yr use 1-Active. Vegans use 1-Vegan
Weight Loss & Liver Support
Take 3 daily as directed. 1- before each of 3 meals or evenly split throughout the day
LeanMR (protein and fiber rich meal replacement formula) 
Use as directed within daily meal planning (see below) and to make sure you get ~1 gram of protein per pound of lean body mass (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources divided 4-5 times daily depending on preference
Can also be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired ingredients) to shore up total daily protein needs. See below for proper menu integration.
Meal Replacement/Substitute Integration 
You may also click here for a simple ready to go solution including sample menus with proper calories, foods and LeanMR meal replacement diet integration
Weight Loss Phase:
Meal Replacements (MRs) generally supply two small meals a day and allow freedom of choice from traditional foods for the remaining allotted foods/calories. Therefore, use as two small meals within any calorie restricted meal plan of 4-5 meals since frequent meals are often better for bodyfat/weight reduction than fewer larger ones especially as it relates to satiety, preservation of lean body mass (LBM) and energy levels. LeanMR recipes are available here
Maintenance Phase 
Continue to consume 4-5 small meals daily within caloric allotment that includes 2 MRs for convenience and to help ensure overall diet quality while reducing food costs. A wide variety of healthy recipes including meal replacement recipes are available here

From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Thursday, June 20, 2024 9:01 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Supplements
Question: Is ThermAccel safe to take if you have high blood pressure (and are on metoprolol beta blockers)?
 

