Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. We do not promote any of our products as clinical solutions (i.e., treat a medical condition). The goals of our health products are related to protection (i.e., before the fact). That said, because your client has an existing liver condition, any supplement they may use should be approved by their doctor. As an example, the green tea extract in Weight Loss & Liver Support (WLLS), which is EGCG, may be contraindicated in existing liver disease, but may help protect against it before the fact. To error on the side of caution, don’t recommend it without the doctor’s approval. You can give the doctor this link to the Practitioner Dietary Supplement Reference Guide (PDSRG), which is used for training and certifications purposes only (not consumer facing), and click on WeightLoss&LiverSupport to get the peer review science related to WLLS.
Thanks again and have a great night!


From the PDSRG
Safety
Adverse events, precautions, or contraindications with any ingredients in WLLS are rare or unknown in the general population when supplementing the diet properly, as described above. The section below is a high-level summary related to specific subpopulations. Qualified practitioners needing more information related to these categories, including drug interactions, are referred to the TRC Natural Medicine Data Base (TRCNMD), which is continually updated with emerging evidence-based data.
Precautions
Weight Loss & Liver Support (WLLS) is historically (a combination of ingredients have 13 years of widespread use) and generally considered a safe fat-loss aid. Theoretically, concomitant use of choline (much higher doses than found in this product) and atropine may decrease the effects and side effects of atropine.
Diabetes: milk thistle constituents might lower blood glucose in patients with type 2 diabetes. People with diabetes using milk thistle products should closely monitor blood glucose levels. Dose adjustments to diabetes medications might be necessary.,  People with liver disorders should consult their physician before using a product containing ECGC. No IG studies reported more adverse events than the placebo groups38,216,227 Much higher doses than contained in WLLS of NAC (i.e., a clinical need) should require a separate prescription from a qualified physician.108 
Contraindications (also see Precautions)
Weight Loss & Liver Support is contraindicated in pregnancy and lactation because of a lack of data for this population.
Because of NAC, do not take if using anticoagulant drugs or nitroglycerine.
Clinical research shows that milk thistle extract, alone or with tree turmeric extract, can lower blood glucose levels and glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) in patients with type 2 diabetes, including those already taking anti-diabetes drugs.  TAMOXIFEN (Nolvadex): theoretically, the milk thistle constituent silibinin might increase tamoxifen levels and interfere with its conversion to an active metabolite. However, this has not been shown in humans.
Adverse Reactions
Milk Thistle: Orally, milk thistle is usually well-tolerated and considered safe when used orally and appropriately.105  A specific milk thistle extract standardized to contain 70% to 80% silymarin has been safely used in doses up to 420 mg daily for up to 4 years.27,80,81,82, Uncommon events may include an occasional laxative effect, nausea, diarrhea, dyspepsia, flatulence, abdominal bloating, fullness or pain.

EGCG: typical doses range from one to 10 cups of green tea daily without any adverse events. A very high intake of green tea may cause nausea, abdominal bloating, pain, flatulence, and diarrhea. It can also cause central nervous system stimulation and adverse effects such as dizziness, insomnia, fatigue, agitation, tremors, restlessness, and confusion. These effects are more common with higher doses of green tea or green tea extract, equivalent to 5-6 liters of tea per day. There have been reports of potential liver toxicity with regular ingestion of high-dose green tea extracts., To address these accounts, The European Food Safety Association (EFSA) prepared an 89-page report concluding: “Based on the available data on the potential adverse effects of green tea catechins on the liver, the Panel concluded that there is evidence from interventional clinical trials that intake of doses equal or above 800 mg EGCG/day taken as a food supplement statistically significantly increases serum transaminases in treated subjects compared to control.”209, the EFSA also stated, “From the clinical studies reviewed, there is no evidence of hepatotoxicity below 800 mg EGCG/day up to 12 months.” 209 WLLS total dosage (3 tablets/d) contains the known safe and in-range effective dose of 600 mg of green tea (Camilla Sinensis) leaf extract standardized to 98% Polyphenols (588 mg), 80% Catechins (480 mg), 45% EGCG (270 mg), 2% Caffeine (naturally occurring 4 mg), which is well below the EGCG/GT upper limit described by the EFSA.209 Anyone with liver disorders should consult their doctor before considering EGCG use at any dosage. The dotFIT dosage and product duration recommendation would be considered safe and effective for the general population, including the overweight adult population.

Choline is not likely to cause side effects at doses up to 3,000 mg/day. Amounts at very high levels (over 9 g daily) can include sweating, a fishy body odor, and gastrointestinal distress.  

Irvingia gabonensis: The only side effects reported using the specific standardized extract of Irvingia gabonensis (IGOB131) were flatulence, headaches, and difficulty sleeping, which were similar to the reports in the placebo group.37,38,216 
Upper Limit/Toxicity
Choline: the IOM set the UL for choline is 3,500 mg/day, and the LOAEL is 7,500 mg/day.61

NAC: The LD50 for NAC in mice is 7,888 mg/kg, and in rats is 6,000 mg/kg. An AMES test performed on NAC was negative for mutagenicity.87

Milk Thistle: there is no established UL and is considered relatively safe for long-term use as directed.

EGCG: High doses of green tea or green tea extract, equivalent to 21-25 cups of tea per day, can cause gastrointestinal distress., The EFSA stated, “From the clinical studies reviewed, there is no evidence of hepatotoxicity below 800 mg EGCG/day up to 12 months.” 209

Irvingia gabonensis: There is no established UL or known toxicity data available at this time.


From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Wednesday, January 31, 2024 4:23 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Supplements
Question: Would someone diagnosed with liver disease benefit from taking Dotfits Weight Loss & Liver Support?
 


