Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. Directions have not changed on the Weight Loss & Liver Support (WLLS), just been expanded based on the half-life of a single dose. See below for the FAQ.
Thanks again and have a great day.

Q: A client asked me if she should still take WLLS in the morning if she's not going to eat breakfast. Also, what if you forget to take it 30 minutes before a meal? Can you take it right before or should you wait till later? 
A: The bottom line is that the Weight Loss & Liver Support should be consumed 3 times daily and separated as evenly as possible to help maintain the desired levels of ingredients. Taking it before a meal is one way of spreading it out and getting help in appetite support within 30min. But it’s not necessary once you start using the product regularly. 
And yes, have your client take it in the morning even if not consuming breakfast.

Q: A client asked me if she should still take CarbRepel before a meal if not eating carbs at that particular meal. Also, what if you forget to take it 30 minutes before a meal? Can you take it right before or should you wait till later? 
A: No, you would not use CR if not consuming carbs, or very little carbs such as only vegetables or a little fruit. Taking CR as it was used in the clinical trials is ideal (~30min before a carb containing meal), but it will still work if you take it at/before, or very close, to the meal.  

Q: A client asked me if she should still take WLLS in the morning if she's not going to eat breakfast. Also, what if you forget to take it 30 minutes before a meal? Can you take it right before or should you wait till later? 
A: The bottom line is that the Weight Loss & Liver Support should be consumed 3 times daily and separated as evenly as possible to help maintain the desired levels of ingredients. Taking it before a meal is one way of spreading it out and getting help in appetite support within 30min. But it’s not necessary once you start using the product regularly. 
And yes, have your client take it in the morning even if not consuming breakfast.
Q: Do you recommend CR (or WLLS) and ThermAccel used together if I want to boost weight/fat loss? 
A: Yes, you can use CarbRepel with ThermAccel (TA), or any of the dotFIT weight loss products such as Weight Loss and Liver Support together, and it is commonly done with people needing extra help, as each product works to support appetite and metabolism through different and unique mechanisms. Simply follow the directions on each product label. The links will take you to a brief product description including short video.



 
Neal Spruce
CEO
Office. [PHONE]
Fax.     [PHONE]
Follow my podcast, SuppBeast, available on all channels!
           

From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Thursday, September 12, 2024 2:51 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Contact Us


 
Name: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Phone: [PHONE]
Message: Hi! On the bottle of your weight loss and liver support blend, it says you should take 1 capsule 30mins before eating. I was recently told that those instructions have changed and now you can take it at anytime. I wanted to know what made you change and decide it didn’t need to be taken at a certain time? 
 

