Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. First of all, any nutrition advice/guidelines for people with treated health conditions must be approved by the attending physician. I placed below a simple health and bodyfat reduction dietary support program you can bring to your doctor for approval. Additionally, follow a daily food plan conducive to losing bodyfat (i.e., calorie deficit). You can use the dotFIT program, its free (you can also use it with your coach/trainer), and it will give you a personalized food/menu planning program that will guide you to your goal. You can reach back out to one of our phone coaches for any questions or more information (Berlinda is cc’d here). I also placed a note for you and your doctor regarding supporting lean body mass (LBM), especially during weight loss.
Hope this all helps – have a great day.
Dietary support program for bodyfat reduction and health
Click on links for brief product descriptions including short video
Daily:
dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender and follow label directions. If 50yrs or older use Over50 unless noted below; if female under 50 use Women’s; Males and very active females (competitive training protocols) under 50 use 2-Active, with both genders continuing use till 65yrs if still training competitively at which time every person will use Over50; children under 12yr use Kids; children 12-17yr use 1-Active. Vegans use 1-Vegan
Weight Loss & Liver Support  
Take 3 daily as directed. 1- before each of 3 meals or evenly split throughout the day
SuperOmega 3 
Take 1-2 daily with meal if not consuming 8-16oz/wk fatty fish (take 1 if >8oz/wk but <16; 2 if ≤8oz); not necessary if consuming ≥16oz/wk unless for athletic recovery purposes, then increase as directed

Note for you and your doctor on supporting lean body mass (LBM) and exercise results:
People with weakened kidney functions are generally recommended a lower protein intake compared to what is recommended for the average exerciser. It is the nitrogen content that doctors generally want reduced and therefore,  AminoFormula (AF) may be something you good can bring to the doctor. It is a common supplement recommended to the aging population to keep the anabolic signal for muscle protein synthesis (MPS) high while reducing the nitrogen (and sulfur) content. In other words, AF can serve as:
A low nitrogen and sulfur producing anabolic triggering supplement in a flexible low calorie starting formula (add food/supplement components as desired) to support protein needs for anyone, which may be important to the rapidly expanding aging population hampered by age-related muscle loss combined with or without loss of appetite or diminishing organ functions. In this scenario, the person would substitute/supplement this for some of their intact/complete protein sources so that their total nitrogen intake is reduced but the anabolic effect is maintained or increased. Again, any usage needs to be cleared by their doctor, with the bottom line being the doctor may want to incorporate it to lower the person’s nitrogen load but maintain adequate MPS.  
You can also give the doctor the link to our Practitioner Dietary Supplement Reference Guide (PDSRG) so they can lookup products up like AminoFormula with the peer review references, reminding them the PDSRG is only used for formulation safety and efficacy rationale, certification and education purposes – not consumer facing.

Additionally, here is the PDSRG link to WeightLoss&LiverSupport if desired.


From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Tuesday, March 5, 2024 7:29 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Weight Loss
Question: Good Morning, Hello Dot Fit, I need to address a concern that i have regarding my health. Last year due to an obstruction i lost my left kidney at 34 years old, since then it has been very difficult for me to stablish a new life regarding exercise and weight loss. Now my CKD stage is mild and i don't want to use any product that can cause any damage to my kidneys, even minimal. I'm in the army and gaining 30 pounds over my official weight has been very depressing. I hope you have a product that can help me. Thank you. [NAME]
 

