Just so you know – this is why scientist don’t read Fitness magazines. He tries to tweak science to state the obvious.
Please read the TRUE answers (which covers what this bozo says) that every important scientist/obesity researcher knows and I present in every lecture:

The final Weight Control Facts:
Individual total calorie intake is determined by personal activity, body statistics and goal including desired timeframe. The foods that make up your allowed calories can be structured to improve health & performance (meaning if you feel better you can perform/move more)
One single fact determines the rate of weight/fat loss: the average daily calorie deficit, which is the difference between how many calories you burn and the amount consumed. Weight loss should proceed at a pace that does not compromise health or performance
Exercise design is for your body’s structural enhancements including functionality/performance, longevity, aesthetics, etc. Exercise also increases daily calorie burn and helps maintain desired weight
Period  - now STOP reading stuff from the Lay Press -  and go sell something important

If you are having trouble losing weight  - read the attached little piece


Hi [NAME],
Of course you know I was kidding all you guys about “reading” the article although I spoke the truth about the content.
You can just go to our website and get into the Fitness Vault to find our REFERENCED articles and FAQs that will contain the research you are looking for. Find an article and check the references that support what you are looking for. Also the NASM and UNC weight control text that we wrote have the same new references.

I attached the DEFINATIVE study on calories, diets and weight loss – it’s the final, final as far as science is concerned. (I also attached a couple of other minor tidbits).

PS
As I mentioned, obviously lousy eating can slow down weight loss but that’s STILL about calories – you just burn less because you move less or internally use less. No one on the planet Earth violates the laws of energy - no one


