Hi [CUSTOMER] (also see my comment to your #2 question),
The dotFIT program works perfectly for weight/muscle gain as we use for the NFL & NBA combines and other sports venues/programs where muscle gain and performance are the combined goal.
Weight/muscle gain
Use the dotFIT program to get your starting calories and plug in your weight gain goal. Each week (or 2-weeks if using body fat measurements) enter your statistics as prompted and make the adjustments as described. I have also included the basic weight gain instructions here and attached the muscle stack supplement programs for you to pick from.
Fat Loss
For your “cutting” program I have attached the bodybuilding guidelines including supplement program that all our sponsored physique athletes use. Again, use the program to get started and make the adjustments as described in the attached document. The supplement program is within the attached document.
Weight/Muscle gain
In order to simultaneously increase weight/muscle and performance: males may gain up to one-half pound per week and females up to one-quarter pound per week. Beginning exercisers, children and growing teens may gain more. Additionally, if performance is not the focus, meaning size increase is the priority, you can add more calories than shown below to attempt to gain the desired weight slightly quicker. Make sure your daily diet contains 1gm of protein for each pound of lean body mass (LBM) divided 4-6 times a day including before and after training as shown in you supplement recommendation.
Total daily calorie intake should be moderately above current expenditure (dotFIT program will Use automatically create the right menus and chose the “Athletic Menu”). If weight gain does not occur as described, you may add roughly 100 to 250 calories to your daily total (based on body size) consisting of equal amounts of carbohydrates and protein and moderate fat. For example, 20 g protein, 20 g carbohydrate, 10 g fat equaling 250 calories. If preferred, use your shakes or snacks to supply extra calories. Following the addition of extra calories, if after one week weight gain does not occur, repeat the above process*. All this is automatically taken care of using your dotFIT program.

*If body fat or overall weight increases undesirably, slightly reduce daily caloric intake or add a preferred form of aerobic exercise until you achieve your desired weight trend.

Hopefully you were on one of the webinars I did last week on the new powdered ExtremeCreatineXXXL. If not you can download it and see the new muscle gain stacks using this product that replaces the pills and with an upgraded formula. Link to webinars: https://www.dotfit.com/seminars_presentations 
All our many webcasts are located in your Trainer Console. 
Here is a link to the updated science all captured in your Practitioner Dietary Supplement Guide (PDSRG): ExtremeCreatineXXXL
I also attached the stacks here so you can pick as you like.

From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Monday, December 10, 2018 4:36 PM
To: [NAME] <[EMAIL]>
Subject: supplement question

Hey [NAME], 

First off, I'd like to say what a huge fan of DotFit I am and in everything you're doing! I had the privledge of working with and being introduced to DotFit from Zach Lucas when I used to work for him, and I've since just implemented it at the gym I now manage. I've had a nagging question/issue I've been struggling with the past few years and thought if anyone might have an answer for me it would be you! The question is for myself, but it is also something I've noticed I'm running into more and more when I do nutrition consults with clients. 

For several months leading up to a bodybuilding show, I was on a severe caloric restricted diet and like an idiot I continued the diet post show. After a few more months of this, my weight began rising along with my body fat. My sex drive dropped, I became injury prone, and my energy level was at zero. I was barely eating 1800 calories a day while burning close to 3,000 yet I was gaining weight rapidly and lost a ton of my lean body mass. It wasn't until I started reading articles and case studies on metabolic adaptation and adaptive thermogenisis that I started to fully grasp the need to reverse diet out of the hole I put myself in. My calories are now nearly up to match my total daily energy expenditure (I've been slowly increasing my calories by 100 every 2-3 weeks), sleeping 8 hours a night, and supplementing with adaptogens such as CBD and ashwagandha (I would love to see DotFit release their own adaptogens), and my energy is slowly increasing back to where it used to be. 

So, as I write this, I have two questions that I would be immensely grateful if you could help answer. 

1. Now that I've managed to increase my calories to match what I burn, I'd like to begin a bulk in a few weeks followed by a slow cut to reduce my bodyfat. Being that my metabolism has taken quite the downturn in the past and lost a ton of lean muscle, I was wondering if you had any recommendations to keep my muscle mass and therefor my metabolism as high as possible during the cut? During the bulk I was planning on going back onto creatine along with the pre and post protein, active multi, probiotics (history of IBS), and aminoboostxxl,. For the cut: I was thinking muscle defender with the regular whey, aminosboost xxl and creatine but wasnt sure if you moght have a better suggestion. I'll take any and all insight you can give on the subject as far as supplement recommendations for the bulk and cut, any articles on metabolic adaptation, or any diet protocol recommendations!

2. Although it doesnt happen every day, there have been quite a few times where I'll be dealing with a client on dotfit with a similar problem as mine. They've been on an extremely low calorie diet for so long that they actually gain weight on the calories dotfit gives them when they select the goal of "lose weight". I've been telling those clients to first select "improve your health and playspan" so that they're at least eating enough to match their total daily energy expenditure and then later on we can select "lose weight". Is that what you would recommend as well? [Neal Spruce] I wouldn’t put too much stock in people gaining weight on very low calories. It’s a more a myth and be proven many times over that people grossly underestimate their food intake and overestimate their activities and therefore we ignore that and just start them a caloric amount where they start losing weight and make the adjustments accordingly. That said there is a very slight adaptation to chronic low calories but very temporary because as you know, no one dies of starvation being fat, which is what would happen if the myth was true. You can always lose weight. See the attached myth buster. It’s created from the top weight researchers on the planet. To be sure, there is a form of adapted thermogenesis during weight loss but it’s generally driven by less activity and not consistently low resting energy expenditure. And again, nothing wrong with starting people lower and bringing them back up slowly like we do with physique athletes after competition.

Thank you profusely for taking the time to read and hopefully respond to this email. I know the concept of metabolic adaptation is fairly new, but I figured if anyone could give me some insight or point me in the right direction it would be you!

Stay Well, 

    Derrick Moylan


