Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. To meet your protein goal of 1gm/LB of lean body mass (LBM) daily split throughout meals and around your training, you can use the AminoFormula to contribute to your daily intake. Using 2-scoops daily, you may count as 40gms of protein. However, don’t count anymore than that no matter how much you use because you need a variety of whole protein sources since they contain other nutrients and contribute to satiety so you can maintain the proper calorie intake that allows you to gain muscle while losing bodyfat. I placed a dietary supplement program below that includes AminoFormula for your specific needs.
Thanks again and have great day.

Baseline Dietary Support for all Sport & Fitness Goals with AminoFormula to Fortify Daily Protein Intake
(Click on product links for a brief product description including short video)
Daily:
dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender. If 50yrs or older use Over50 unless noted below; if female under 50 use Women’s; Males and very active females (competitive training protocols) under 50 use 2-Active, with both genders continuing use till 65yrs if still training competitively at which time every person will use Over50; children under 12yr use Kids; children 12-17yr use 1-Active).
Take as directed with meals
AminoFormula (AF) - Count as 40gms to total daily protein
Workout days:
Take 1scoop ~10 minutes before and may continue to drink during first 20 minutes of workout
Take 1scoop immediately following workout
Or use both scoops and start ingesting 10min before workout and consume at a pace so it’s finished at end of activity
Non-workout days
Take 1 scoop  in AM and 1 scoop later in the day when not consuming a full protein meal 
As needed:
Super Calcium (read all food labels for calcium content including dotFIT protein shakes)*
Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food/shake intake
Females take 1 or 2 daily with meals; if you need to take 2, take one with AM meal and the 2nd with PM meal; Males take 1 only if necessary
Super Omega 3 
Take 1-2 daily with meal if not consuming 8-16oz/wk fatty fish (take 1 if >8oz/wk but <16; 2 if ≤8oz); not necessary if consuming ≥16oz/wk unless for athletic recovery purposes, then increase as directed

From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Thursday, June 5, 2025 8:02 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Muscle Gain
Question: I'm a 24y/o woman 5'10 and 159lb, 23.9BMI. My goal is to lose fat and build muscle, but protein powders make me bloated. What can I do to meet my daily protein intake goal?
 

