
This should cover everything – pick and choose what you need.

Slides have soy lecithin, artificial sweeteners, and other stuff. Folic is also attached. The rest is below you can pick from. Bottom line is that this person watches too much TV (internet junk and influencers fear mongering). These are topics I take down with the simple moderation phrase, and the fact you have far more things in our environment to worry about than stories blown out of proportion by junk science or exaggerated (non-physiological animal intakes) intakes of basically inert ingredients. And, finally, we always welcome peer reviewed published studies to support their reasoning as long it’s the same amount of data that we have here and accepted by evidence -based science. Show us the equal amount of data that supports your position as we use for ours.
Bioengineered Ingredients – assuming they mean GMO. You have that answer on the website, including that most of our products are non-GMO – we just don’t pay for the certification, except for the products that have it on the label.
Like healthy foods and most other foods that have approved ingredients, anything in moderation is fine from a health standpoint, including the FDA approved ingredients you refer to here - unless you have an allergy or adverse reaction to a particular food/component, at which point you would cease to consume. Bottom line is to purchase our all-natural products if such as the Alln1 SuperBlend™, Whey, BPP, etc.
See attached on folic acid (we are going to be using the 5-MTFR in the Active, just to avoid controversy -  as it’s already in the Alln1 SuperBlend™ )

Sucralose and cellulose (also see section in WheySmooth-pg 29 and I pasted it below)
Partial answer to a question from a confused consumer that said sucralose was harmful: 
Of course, there is nothing harmful about sucralose in proper amounts or we would not use it like anything else. In fact, sucralose is one of the seven FDA approved non-nutritional sweeteners (also no calories). That said, because of expanding media, there will always be confusion and financial bias around any ingredient/food product and therefore, we make an unflavored/unsweetened creatine and other all natural sweetened or unflavored alternatives, such as protein powders, Alln1 SuperBlend™  etc., for people’s personal preferences. Mindful we are an evidence-based R & D company for fitness programming and products. Meaning our products are Practitioner Products sold through professional channels,  not available in the mass market. And why we are the largest provider of 3rd party tested nutrition programs and products in the sport and fitness channels including collegiate and professional sports. As we always like to say here in the scientific community, “while we are bound to the evidence-based facts, everyone else is entitled to their own opinion” and that is why we have the natural alternatives. A reminder, as you probably know, natural can be very harmful to many people (think peanuts, fruits, shellfish, gluten, etc.--see attached slide), which is why natural foods have warning labels. We have more adverse reactions to monk fruit and stevia (natural allergies), which is in our all-natural products than any other product we sell. We have none in the other powders. 


FAQ:
Q: Why artificial sweeteners? Not included in All Natural WheySmooth or BestPlantProtein
A: Better and healthier than added sugar and FDA Approved (Ref. Sweetener docs here.) 4,2022meta, ref4 
Added sugars are a leading cause of disease and why the government warns & sets limitsRef2 
Better taste = continued use to improve fitness results –no downside in “normal health” users
Higher nutrition per calorie/sweetness to support desired body comp
Sucralose tested best of sweeteners & sucrose in weight management Ref
Supports blood sugar (approved for diabetics)
Decrease risk of adverse reactions common with “natural” sweeteners (honey, stevia, lactose, fruit sugar residues, etc.)27,28 
Supports weight control vs contributor2, 2022meta, and CV health
Approved for children1
*The FDA established an acceptable daily intake (ADI) for sucralose of 5 milligrams per kilogram (Europe is 7 and Canada 11mg/kg) of body weight (mg/kg) per day)*. The ADI represents an amount 100 times less than the quantity of sucralose found to be safe in research studies. For a person weighing 150 pounds (68 kg), US ADI equates to 340 mg of sucralose—the amount found in nine cans of diet soda or more than 28 individual packets of sucralose—consumed, on average, every day over a lifetime.
1Policy Statement FROM THE AMERICAN ACADEMY OF PEDIATRICS. The Use of Nonnutritive Sweeteners in Children. PEDIATRICS Volume 144, number 5, November 2019:e20192765.
2Higgins et al. A randomized controlled trial contrasting the effects of 4 low-calorie sweeteners and sucrose on body weight in adults with overweight or obesity. Am J Clin Nutr 2019;109:1288–1301
FYI: Because of its safety, EFSA decided to expand the sweetener’s use in foods for special medical purposes for children.

Sucralose
Sucralose is also a NNS, and is made from sucrose by a process that substitutes three chloride atoms for three hydroxyl groups on the sucrose molecule., Sucralose is a very versatile NNS that is 450–650 times sweeter than sucrose, possesses a pleasant sweet taste and a quality and time intensity profile that is close to that of sucrose making a popular NNS.414, Sucralose has been extensively studied with more than 110 safety studies reviewed by the FDA in approving the use of sucralose as a general purpose sweetener for food.427,428,446, A primary advantage of sucralose for consumers is its exceptional stability. It retains its sweetness over a wide range of temperature and storage conditions and in solutions over time. This stability allows manufactures to create greater tasting foods and beverages and maintain the fresh flavor. Like Ace-K, sucralose is heat stable, meaning that it stays sweet even when used at high temperatures during baking, making it a common sugar substitute in baked goods.448, 
The FDA established an acceptable daily intake (ADI) for sucralose of 5 milligrams per kilogram (Europe’s is 7 mg/kg and Canada’s is 11 mg/kg) of body weight (mg/kg) per day.*427 The amount of sucralose per serving in WheySmooth is ~34 mg.
*Out of safety precautions to protect all sub-groups of people, the ADI represents an amount 100 times less than the quantity of sucralose found to be safe in research studies.427 For a person weighing 150 pounds (68 kg), the US ADI equates to 340 mg of sucralose—the amount found in nine cans of diet soda or more than 28 individual packets of sucralose—consumed, on average, every day over a lifetime.
Carboxymethyl Cellulose
Carboxymethyl cellulose (CMC) or cellulose gum is a popular non-toxic cellulose (fiber) derivative, an FDA approved food additive and on the generally recognized as safe list (GRAS). CMC is used in food as a viscosity modifier or thickener, and to stabilize emulsions (emulsifier) in food products., CMC is used extensively in gluten-free and reduced fat food products such as WheySmooth. Use of CMC also ensures smooth dispersion in flavor oils, and improves texture and overall quality.453,454



From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Friday, November 21, 2025 9:51 AM
To: [NAME] <[EMAIL]>
Subject: FW: concerned...

Hi [NAME],

Please see below and let me know if you have any of these written up already. 

Thanks,
[NAME]

From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Friday, November 21, 2025 8:15 AM
To: [NAME] <[EMAIL]>
Cc: [NAME] <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Re: concerned...

Thank you for contacting us.

I am going to loop in our VP of Nutrition Kat Barefield for additional support.

Thank you for choosing dotFIT! 

 Berlinda Castillo
Account Manager
Office: [PHONE] Ext. 103
Fax: [PHONE]

[ADDRESS] 233
Westlake Village, CA 91361

From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Friday, November 21, 2025 10:02:32 AM
To: [NAME] <[EMAIL]>
Subject: concerned... 
 


Good morning!
I have some concerns about some of the ingredients in your products:
Sucrulose
Soy Lecithin
Bioengineered Ingredients
Cellulose
Folic Acid

These ingredients have been shown to have health consequences. Please advise your need to use them. Thank you!
-- 
Customer Care Team 

Jazzercise Conway
[PHONE]
Schedule and Pricing

