Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. We would need to know more information regarding your personal statistics and fitness goals to individualize a dietary supplement program for you, which is why we created the dotFIT program and the supplement screening tool. I have cc’d Berlinda here to make sure you have know how to access to both tools. In the meantime, see below for a baseline dietary support program that all active people would use to establish good health and keep active throughout a lifespan while supporting any fitness goal. After using the baseline supplement program, and you want to take your fitness goals further, you can use our supplement screening tool to get the proper recommendations.
Thanks again and have a great weekend.

Baseline Dietary Support for all Sport & Fitness Goals
(Click on product links for a brief product description including short video)
Daily:
dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender. If 50yrs or older use Over50 unless noted below; if female under 50 use Women’s; Males and very active females (competitive training protocols) under 50 use 2-Active, with both genders continuing use till 65yrs if still training competitively at which time every person will use Over50; children under 12yr use Kids; children 12-17yr use 1-Active). Or use the Alln1 SuperBlend™  to complement any diet
Take as directed with meals
All-Natural WheySmooth or other favorite dotFIT protein mix (based on caloric allotment for goal)
Use as directed to make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of LBM (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 3-5 times daily
Can be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired supporting contents) to shore up total daily protein needs
As needed:
Super Calcium (read all food labels for calcium content including dotFIT protein shakes)*
Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food/shake intake
Females take 1 or 2 daily with meals; if you need to take 2, take one with AM meal and the 2nd with PM meal; Males take 1 only if necessary
Super Omega 3 
Take 1-2 daily with meal if not consuming 8-16oz/wk fatty fish (take 1 if >8oz/wk but <16; 2 if ≤8oz); not necessary if consuming ≥16oz/wk unless for athletic recovery purposes, then increase as directed
*All food labels including Protein Powders must contain calcium levels by serving so always check
Workout Days:
All-Natural WheySmooth or other favorite dotFIT protein mix
Take 1scoop ~30-40 minutes before workout and 1-scoop immediately following workout


From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Saturday, December 27, 2025 11:01 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Supplements
Question: Good morning. I’m a 57 year old located in the Chicago ‘burbs. I weight train every other day - and saw that you had a PDF guide as to what a day in the life of taking supplements should look like - and now I can’t find it. Can you point me in the right direction?
 

