Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. There is nothing you are recommending that is contraindicated for a diabetic attempting bodyfat reduction as long as they are managing their insulin correctly. However, if you are having the client use the Alln1 SuperBlend™ (SB) , you do not need the Active MV because that is already in the SB and much more. Additionally, you do not need the Recover & Build (BCAAs) if you are having them use the AminoFormula because it contains the BCAAs and more. Below is from our lectures and how you would use these products together. The links connect you to the product descriptions – the same that is on the website and in your trainer console.
Thanks again and have great day. Berlinda is cc’d here if you have any questions.

Level 3 Bundle for Fastest Results & Daily Recovery with Meal Replacement/Substitute Integration
Click on product links for a brief product description including short video
Daily:
 Alln1 SuperBlendTM  (SB)
Take as directed: 1-serving (2-scoops) daily; take 1-scoop in AM and 1-scoop PM; visit recipe section to incorporate as desired into daily lifestyle*
ThermAccel
Take as directed (TA 2tabs twice daily) 
CarbRepel 
3tabs/day, 1 before each of 3-meals that may contain carbohydrates
LeanMR (protein and fiber rich meal replacement formula) 
Use as directed within daily meal planning (see below) and to make sure you get ~1 gram of protein per pound of lean body mass (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources divided 4-5 times daily depending on preference
Can also be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired ingredients) to shore up total daily protein needs
Workout Days*:
AminoFormula (count as at least 25g [up to 40g if using more than 1-scoop ] of protein to daily needs of 1g/LB/LBM)
Take ½-1-scoop ~10 minutes before and may continue to drink during first 20 minutes of workout
Take ½ 1-scoop immediately following workout
Or start with both scoops and consume throughout workout so it’s finished at end of activity
*may use anytime to complete an incomplete protein meal

Meal Replacement/Substitute Integration
You may also click here for a simple ready to go solution including sample menus with proper calories, foods and LeanMR meal replacement diet integration
Weight Loss Phase:
Meal Replacements (MRs) generally supply two small meals a day and allow freedom of choice from traditional foods for the remaining allotted foods/calories. Therefore, use as two small meals within any calorie restricted meal plan of 4-5 meals since frequent meals are often better for bodyfat/weight reduction than fewer larger ones especially as it relates to satiety, preservation of lean body mass (LBM) and energy levels. LeanMR recipes are available here
Maintenance Phase 
Continue to consume 4-5 small meals daily within caloric allotment that includes 2 MRs for convenience and to help ensure overall diet quality while reducing food costs. A wide variety of healthy recipes including meal replacement recipes are available here
  


 
Neal Spruce
CEO
Office. [PHONE]
Fax.     [PHONE]
Follow my podcast, SuppBeast, available on all channels!
           

From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Thursday, August 28, 2025 8:15 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Contact Us


 
Name: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Phone: [PHONE]
Message: Hey team! I have a diabetic client who is looking to lose fat mass and work towards ultimate health and I am creating her supplements list. I added the following. Can you give me some extra tidbits about why these products are good for diabetics to implement into their routine, and if I am missing anything that I should recommend her supplement wise? AciveMV Alln1 Super Omega 3 Carb Repel ThermAccel Recover&Build Amino Formula LeanMR All Natural Whey
 

