Hi [CUSTOMER],
The creatine monohydrate in all a creatine products and flavors (NO7, CreatineMonohydrate and ExtremeCreatineXXXL+) is the same raw material, thus exactly the same creatine. 
When Creapure ran out of raw materials a couple of years ago, we had to rush to find another manufacturer. The one we found was an even cleaner creatine monohydrate as documented by our NSF-CS testing, which has the strictest allowed levels of creatinine. See an older FAQ below for more information and test differences. All that said, there are probably some fragment statements living in places on our website regarding Creapure from when we used it. Our web master will do a search to eliminate.
Thanks, and have a great day.


Q: Are you still using Creapure as your creatine monohydrate source?
A: We found a better one, which why we NSF-CS the product – to prove it is cleaner than any other raw material including Creapure.
When Creapure ran out of raw materials about 2years ago we had to find another supplier, which we did, and the new supplier actually had a purer creatine monohydrate (see test results below).
Now our source of creatine surpasses Creapure specs in creatinine levels, making ours purer. Further, ours passes all NSF-CS standards, meaning it is as clean and pure as it gets and therefore any argument on raw material quality is mute.

Creatine Monohydrate – min 99.9%
Creatinine – Creapure-max 100ppm; Creatine Monohydrate used in dotFIT products is lower, at 50ppm
Dicyanamide – max 50ppm
Dihydrotriazine – max 3ppm
Heavy Metals – max 10ppm
CAS No 6020-87-7
Same Nutritional Profile 
No Allergens
Our ingredients in all creatine products are Kosher, Halal, Vegan, Non-GMO, not on WADA/NSF/NFL Banned Attributes list



From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Thursday, March 20, 2025 10:53 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Supplements
Question: Hello - is the Unflavored Creatine Monohydrate, Creapure CM like the Raspberry Lemonade? Also, does a supplement have to have "creapure" on the supplement bottle itself in order for it to be creapure (opposed to just promoting it on their website that way)? Thanks, Matt
 

