Bloating is a funny thing and it’s almost unavoidable in perimenopause and menopause no matter what you eat. So, the first question I ask females is age. Then all you can do is play around with different foods to minimize the effects.
As far detox goes, on its face (detoxing impurities in the body), it’s pure quackery. But everyone has different definitions or detoxing/cleansing. For instance, the product she names contains milk thistle and choline. Both ingredients are in the Weight Loss and Liver Support (WLLS) product that work to help metabolize fat droplets in the liver and subsequently support healing liver tissues and improving energy metabolism. The problem with the product she names JSHEALTH Detox + Debloat Formula, both those ingredients are well under their respective effective dosages, The effective doses are in the WLLS at a daily dose of 400mg of Choline and 498mg of milk thistle. Where they only have 82mg of choline and 120mg of milk thistle in a full daily dose. Further their turmeric amount is useless. Bottom line is if someone is using this JS Health product to somehow cleanse/detox their body -it is useless. If they are using it to minimize boating, and it somehow works – well, ok. Not sure how, but hey, anything is possible depending on the physiological state of the recipient. Below is a related FAQ from the website.
All articles https://www.dotfit.com/search.aspx?q=detox 
What is the best way to detoxify my body? https://www.dotfit.com/content-35775.html

You don't need to. The notion that fasting cleanses actually “clean” the body is more of a marketing ploy than sound science. The human body naturally expels toxins via detoxification pathways in the gallbladder, liver, kidneys, digestive system, lungs and skin. The gastrointestinal tract contains 70% of the body’s immune response and one of its major roles is to remove waste from the body. Currently, there is little to no research that waste build-up or constipation (straining to pass hard stools) causes cancer, health issues or disease. Most importantly follow your Playspan® dietary support program to calorically efficiently to meet your protein and vitamin and mineral recommendations. That said, if still compelled to clean up your lifestyle for some period of time, adding any of the following strategies to your lifestyle is easy, healthy and your best bet at "detoxifying" the body: https://www.dotfit.com/content-35775.html.

1. Minimize added sugars such as soda and sugar-sweetened beverages

2. Eat a diet rich in fresh organic fruits and vegetables. These foods contain fiber, protective phytonutrients and vitamins and minerals

3. Consume plant oils and unprocessed nuts for anti-inflammatory oils and minerals.

4. Eat adequate protein from high quality sources, fresh eggs, and vegetables. If you eat meat, choose sources that are humanely treated, free of hormones and antibiotics

5. For individuals with allergies, choose foods and supplements that are free of common food allergens such as gluten (from grains) and casein (from dairy)

6. Eliminate stimulants, caffeine, alcohol, tobacco products, modified food ingredients and chemicals and drink adequate amounts of clean water free of contaminants.  For pure water consider a reverse osmosis filter system or RO water which can be found at many natural grocery and health food stores

7. Consume adequate fiber - 28 to 35 grams a day to promote proper bowel function

8. Get enough restorative sleep (7.5 to 9hrs/night of sound sleep or stage 4 sleep is optimal)

9. Make an effort to intake specific nutrients that have been found to support proper detoxification function, including epigallocatechin gallate from green tea, glucosinolates from cruciferous vegetables (broccoli, cauliflower, Brussel sprouts, and cabbage), resveratrol from grapes and peanut skins, isoflavones from soybeans or fermented soy, and polyphenols and anthocyanidins from berries

10. Try hot lemon water with cayenne pepper before breakfast to stimulate the liver.

11. Add a tablespoon of apple cider vinegar in fresh water for the kidneys

12. Exercise enough to sweat to help open the pores to release toxins through the skin

13. Try body brushing and rebounding to stimulate lymph function for the immune system


 

From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Monday, July 28, 2025 1:07 PM
To: [NAME] <[EMAIL]>
Subject: ? on Detox

Hey [NAME],

I got a question from a fibrPRO today on detox products.  I know you don't believe in detoxing.  Especially when you live like we do filling your gaps.  Except for the WLLS which breaks down fat deposits in your liver.  She asked about a Detox and Anti Bloating Supplement called Buy JSHEALTH Detox + Debloat Formula 60 Tablets online at Chemist Warehouse

Can you give me the correct verbage to articulate this to her in your words?   I'll make a note of it for the future.

BTW - she asked me last week if Amino Formula could cause bloating.  I discussed it with Chad and told her there was nothing but free form aminos and it would not cause bloating.  It's most likely something else in her diet that is causing this.  

I mentioned that since she is on her ActiveMV & getting enough protein she may have built her stomach muscles up and that people sometimes mistake this for a bloated feeling.  I heard you mention this in regards to Creatine on Suppbeast and I felt this myself as I developed stronger Abs. 

Thanks!




Mark Rowland 
Director, fibrPRO Services
 
C: [PHONE]
E: [EMAIL]
 
[ADDRESS] 233
Westlake Village, CA 91361
 
www.info.fibr.fit


https://calendly.com/mark-fibr/15min

Follow dotFIT CEO Neal Spruce’s podcast, SuppBeast, available on all channels!
          
https://www.youtube.com/@suppbeastpod


