Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. The most important thing you can do being diabetic and on a bodyfat/weight loss journey is to manage you insulin properly. That said, below we placed a meal replacement program that can be integrated into your daily menu planning, mindful that high protein meal replacement programs are the most successful natural weight loss solutions available and a program 10s of thousands of our clients use regularly. The complete program includes the necessary dietary support to protect health and lean body mass (LBM), while supporting any bodyfat/weight loss menu plans and fitness goal.
Make sure you run this by your doctor,( which they would generally agree with), unless there is something about your condition, only your doctor is aware of. Mindful we do not give clinical advice, even though we have clinical dieticians on staff.
Thanks again and have a great weekend.
Bodyfat/Weight Loss with Maintenance and Health Program
Click on links for brief product descriptions including short video
Daily:
dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender and follow label directions. If 50yrs or older use Over50 unless noted below; if female under 50 use Women’s; Males and very active females (competitive training protocols) under 50 use 2-Active, with both genders continuing use till 65yrs if still training competitively at which time every person will use Over50; children under 12yr use Kids; children 12-17yr use 1-Active. Vegans use 1-Vegan. 
LeanMR other favorite dotFIT protein mix
Use as directed within daily meal planning (see below) and to make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of lean body mass (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources divided 4-5 times daily
Can also be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired supporting contents) to shore up total daily protein needs
As needed
Super Calcium 
Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food intake (read all food labels for calcium content including protein mixes)
Females take 1 or 2 daily with meals; if you need to take 2, take one with AM meal and the 2nd with PM meal; Males take 1 only if necessary
SuperOmega 3 
Take 1-2 daily with meal if not consuming 8-16oz/wk fatty fish (take 1 if >8oz/wk but <16; 2 if ≤8oz); not necessary if consuming ≥16oz/wk unless for athletic recovery purposes, then increase as directed

Meal Replacement Integration 
Weight loss phase: 
Meal Replacements (MRs) generally supply two small meals a day and allow freedom of choice from traditional foods for the remaining allotted foods/calories. Therefore, use as two small meals within any calorie restricted meal plan of 4-5 meals since it's been shown that frequent small meals are better for weight loss than fewer larger ones especially as it relates to satiety, preservation of lean body mass (LBM) and energy levels
Get LeanMR recipes here: https://www.dotfit.com/category-cid-1868.html 
Maintenance phase 
Continue to consume 4-5 small meals daily within caloric allotment that include 2 MRs for convenience and to help ensure overall diet quality while reducing food costs.
You can go to our recipe section on the dotFIT website to get recipes with meal preparation instructions including meal replacement recipes


 
Neal Spruce
CEO
Office. [PHONE]
Fax.     [PHONE]
Follow my podcast, SuppBeast, available on all channels!
           

From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Friday, February 21, 2025 9:49 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Contact Us


 
Name: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Phone: [PHONE]
Message: Type 2 diabetic interested in getting in better shape shedding a few pounds I am on medication for my Diabetes as well as Epilepsy I need product tht will be safe to use. 
 

