Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. Any specific recommendation on which of the protein powders you would use would be based on your goal and lifestyle eating habits. The simple explanation of differences between the 3 products you named are: LeanMR being a complete meal replacement because it has the carbohydrate to protein and fiber ratio in its native formula that is required for that designation (see below for a meal replacement program for weight/bodyfat reduction using LeanMR in daily meal planning). WheySmooth and All Natural WheySmooth are alike in protein, carbs, fats and calories. The difference is that one is 100% natural and the other use both natural and artificial sweeteners - and they can be used for any goal. Be mindful that all protein powders have a short video description when you click on the links in the store (like the one’s above as well). See below for more information in the slides we use for Practitioners and their client’s education. And make sure you visit our Recipe section for many great product recipes. Berlinda is cc’d here in case you need more information.
Thanks again and have a great day.

Bodyfat/Weight Loss with Maintenance and Health Program
Click on links for brief product descriptions including short video
Daily:
dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender and follow label directions. If 50yrs or older use Over50 unless noted below; if female under 50 use Women’s; Males and very active females (competitive training protocols) under 50 use 2-Active, with both genders continuing use till 65yrs if still training competitively at which time every person will use Over50; children under 12yr use Kids; children 12-17yr use 1-Active. Vegans use 1-Vegan. 
LeanMR other favorite dotFIT protein mix
Use as directed within daily meal planning (see below) and to make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of lean body mass (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources divided 4-5 times daily
Can also be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired supporting contents) to shore up total daily protein needs
As needed
Super Calcium 
Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food intake (read all food labels for calcium content including protein mixes)
Females take 1 or 2 daily with meals; if you need to take 2, take one with AM meal and the 2nd with PM meal; Males take 1 only if necessary
SuperOmega 3 
Take 1-2 daily with meal if not consuming 8-16oz/wk fatty fish (take 1 if >8oz/wk but <16; 2 if ≤8oz); not necessary if consuming ≥16oz/wk unless for athletic recovery purposes, then increase as directed

Meal Replacement Integration 
Weight loss phase: 
Meal Replacements (MRs) generally supply two small meals a day and allow freedom of choice from traditional foods for the remaining allotted foods/calories. Therefore, use as two small meals within any calorie restricted meal plan of 4-5 meals since it's been shown that frequent small meals are better for weight loss than fewer larger ones especially as it relates to satiety, preservation of lean body mass (LBM) and energy levels
Get LeanMR recipes here: https://www.dotfit.com/category-cid-1868.html 
Maintenance phase 
Continue to consume 4-5 small meals daily within caloric allotment that include 2 MRs for convenience and to help ensure overall diet quality while reducing food costs.
You can go to our recipe section on the dotFIT website to get recipes with meal preparation instructions including meal replacement recipes

 







From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Wednesday, January 8, 2025 6:49 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Contact Us


 
Name: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Phone: [PHONE]
Message: What’s the difference in these 3 products: 1. LeanMR Nutrion Skake 2. Whey Smooth 3. All Natural Whey Smooth I’ve been using Whey Smooth but just wondered about the others. Which one do you recommend for me? Thanks for your help.😀
 

