Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. We are not sure exactly what you are looking for but all dotFIT products are based on the Practitioner Dietary Supplement Reference Guide (PDSRG), which none of the product you mention (or any other dietary supplements for that matter) have for peer review support related to dosages). Meaning, if other products dosages are different from ours, the safety and efficacy will be inferior – i.e., results will be lessened or none.
Just send our client the respective documents and if they read all completely, they will know why your company signed up with us like the majority of other sport and fitness companies, which is to get their members/athletes to their goals faster and protect their assets. We are the only company on the planet that documents dosages and forms that produce positive results and 3rd party test. See below for all you need to know and more about manufacturing, recommending and testing dietary supplements and why dotFIT is the number one resource. Berlinda is cc’d here in case you need additional information or clarification, including have your client contact us directly.
Thanks again and have great evening .

3rd Party Tested & NSF Certified for Sport Dietary Supplements
dotFIT is Evidence Based* 24/7 Support with Practitioner Products Only
dotFIT Worldwide is R&D company that delivers holistic evidence-based programming, products and support to over 1700 Sport/Fitness & Health Facilities, and over 50,000 sport & fitness professionals
 
#1 Recommended and Used Dietary Supplements in the Sport & Fitness Channels including college and professional sports
If you are looking for health, performance and fitness support with Practitioner Products only (not found in consumer channels and sold through professionals) and want full product disclosure (rationale for use, mechanisms of action, safety, contraindications, etc.) you can click the link to the dotFIT Practitioner's Dietary Supplement Reference Guide (PDSRG) that is used by all our sport, fitness and health professionals and published by our Scientific Advisory Board and R&D team. The first section describes everything around criteria, recommendation, testing and manufacturing processes. All products are 3rd party tested and specific dotFIT health and performance products are also NSF Certified for Sport (NSFCS). Peer review quality documents for individual products are found in their respective categories. dotFIT is a research and development company for sport, fitness and health professionals, therefore, all programs/products must pass our Evidence-Based Advisory and Legal Committee Rules including 3rd party testing procedures such as Health Canada, NSF and mandatory audited GMPs. Individual products can be found in respective sections. PDSRG (used for formulation safety and efficacy rationale, certification and education purposes, not consumer facing and located in the certified practitioner console).
*Evidence based: sport and fitness/weight control solutions (or clinical decisions) that represent the best available evidence and supported by the consensus of their respective scientific community
Takeaway
You need both: 1) documentation that doses/forms match positive clinical trials found in the practitioner dietary supplement reference guide (PDSRG) i.e.,  submitted documentation
and 2) 3rd party testing to make sure it’s in the product at that dosage (Ref)




 
Neal Spruce
CEO
Office. [PHONE]
Fax.     [PHONE]
Follow my podcast, SuppBeast, available on all channels!
           

From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Thursday, May 22, 2025 7:27 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Contact Us


 
Name: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Phone: [PHONE]
Message: Hi there! I have a potential client who would like information on why dotfit or etc is higher recommended than BEYOND RAW CHEMISTRY LABS L-Glutamine , L-Carnitine, L-Citrulline, Creatine HCl, and GNC Performance pro creatine monohydrate.
 

