Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. Following any of the menus in the dotFIT program will give you the most nutrition for the calories, just as following a true mediterranean diet will. Simply fill out the questionnaire and you are on your way – it’s free and if you have trainer, they can use it with you to hold you accountable. From there, simply add the Alln1 SuperBlend™ for your dietary support and you will be filling any nutrition gaps left, whether known or unknown. Also if you want to recover properly and stay active, make sure you are getting ~1gm of protein per pound of lean body mass (LBM) split throughout the day. Using a protein powder can economically, conveniently, and calorically efficiently (more healthy protein in less calories) help you achieve that goal. Using a powder before and after a workout not only helps you recover better but also gives you 50gms of protein added to your daily total. Berlinda is cc’d here in case you have any questions or need more information.
Thanks again and have great evening. 


Daily
Alln1 SuperBlendTM  (SB)
Take as directed: 1-full serving daily (2-scoops); 1-scoop in AM and 1-scoop in PM; visit recipe section to incorporate as desired into daily lifestyle* (see below for popular recipe)
WheySmooth or other favorite dotFIT protein mix (based on caloric allotment for goal)
Use as directed to make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of LBM (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 3-5 times daily
Can be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired supporting contents) to shore up total daily protein needs
Workout Days: WheySmooth or other favorite dotFIT protein mix 
Take 1scoop ~30-40 minutes before workout
Take 1-scoop immediately following workout

* Most popular way of consuming SB daily is mixing it with water and 25gms of vanilla WheySmooth
Nutrition facts based on 1scoop of WS and 1scoop of Alln1 SuperBlendTM
25gms protein, 16.5gm CHO, 4gms fat, 352mg calcium, 224mg potassium, 195cals
Full days’ recommendation for: vitamins and minerals, antioxidants, probiotics, prebiotics, Ashwagandha, turmeric & mushroom blend, along with 6gms of fiber and 2 full servings of vegetables
As desired, add any fruit for the perfect one and done health habit

From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Monday, April 14, 2025 2:52 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Nutrition
Question: I would like a comprehensive health plan on what foods i should eat that give me the most amount of nutrients without needing a lot of supplements.
 

