Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. Your protein needs are simple: Make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of LBM (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 3-5 times daily. If you are using AminoFormula (AF) for exercise recovery, the most you can count it towards your protein goal, no matter how much you use, is 40gms (2-scoops split). See below for proper use within your baseline dietary support program and exercise. Below that is a related Q&A. All that said, you can also use AF to fortify a low protein meal/diet/foods such as plant-based diets, low protein breakfast, etc., to raise the meal’s protein content with caloric efficiency or breaking a fast.
Thanks again and have great day.
AminoFormula in Baseline to Control Body Composition – No Stacking
General Health, Recovery, Weight Control and Performance Supplement Program with AminoFormula
Click on product links for a brief product description including short video
Daily:
dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender. If 50yrs or older use Over50 unless noted below; if female under 50 use Women’s; Males and very active females (competitive training protocols) under 50 use 2-Active, with both genders continuing use till 65yrs if still training competitively at which time every person will use Over50; children under 12yr use Kids; children 12-17yr use 1-Active); Or the Alln1 SuperBlend™ 
Take as directed with meals
WheySmooth or other favorite dotFIT protein mix (based on caloric allotment for goal)
Use as directed to make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of LBM (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 3-5 times daily
Can be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired supporting contents) to shore up total daily protein needs
As needed:
Super Calcium (read all food labels for calcium content including dotFIT protein shakes)*
Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food/shake intake
Females take 1 or 2 daily with meals; if you need to take 2, take one with AM meal and the 2nd with PM meal; Males take 1 only if necessary
Super Omega 3 
Take 1-2 daily with meal if not consuming 8-16oz/wk fatty fish (take 1 if >8oz/wk but <16; 2 if ≤8oz); not necessary if consuming ≥16oz/wk unless for athletic recovery purposes, then increase as directed
*All food labels including Protein Powders must contain calcium levels by serving so always check
Workout Days:
AminoFormula (AF) –count as 25-40gms protein
Take ½-1scoop ~10 minutes before and may continue to drink during first 20 minutes of workout (or to midpoint)
Take ½-1scoop immediately following workout
Or use both scoops and start ingesting 10min before workout and consume at a pace so it’s finished at end of activity


Q: There is no protein listed on AminoFormula (AF), can I count it as a protein?
A: You may add 25-40gm (1-2scoops) of protein to your daily protein intake when using AF as directed, but generally no more regardless of daily intake. The reason AminoFormula (AF) does not publish a protein amount is because it is purposely not a complete protein as it contains only the  essential amino acids that are directly responsible for protein synthesis activation in proportion to the demand, and therefore serves as a low calorie, fast acting, high anabolic signaling product for activating muscle protein synthesis (MPS) beyond intact protein itself. 
Your total food/shake protein intake throughout the day supplies the remaining amino acids (and they can be made in the body) necessary for the complete and prolonged synthesis. That said, AF can be used to fortify a low protein meal/food (e.g., plant based, low protein breakfast etc.,) to raise the total food protein biological value (BV) - i.e., eliminate the AA limiting factor for MPS indigenous to weaker protein sources. Further, AF is vegan friendly.
More info:
AF serves to enhance the MPS process beyond protein alone or serve as a low calorie, high anabolic extra source of protein. A protein equivalent in 1-scoop of AF, is generally counted as ~25gms, as it takes ~25-35gms of a complete protein to get the amount of the EAA found in one serving of AF including the 6gms of BCAA. However, regardless of your total AF intake, we advise you only add it as 25-40gm of protein to your 1gm/LB/lean body mass(LBM)/day of protein needs. Mindful that active strength/performance athletes still maintain the 1gm/LB/LBM/D of whole/intact protein sources because different whole food proteins have other helpful properties/nutrients including satiety.



From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Thursday, August 6, 2026 7:34 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Weight Loss
Question: If I am currently running a GLP-1 and I am hitting my protein intake and to makes sure I am supplementing my protein need with amino formula how many extra servings can i take to make sure I am absolutely covering my protein intake 
 

