Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. None of the dotFIT proteins contain any of the ingredients (beef, shellfish or chicken) and therefore should be fine for your client. If for some reason your client is hyper-sensitive to some shellfish and have been advised not to consume any product that might have been manufactured in a facility that also made other products with shellfish ingredients (possible cross-contamination), then to be safe give them the All Natural WheySmooth or the BestPlantProtein. See below for more on hyper-sensitivity warnings that also applies to shellfish, and a baseline dietary support program for this special population.
Thanks again and have a great day!

FAQs
Q: I need to know if any of your products are safe for people with a peanut/tree nut allergy ? Cross contacts matters. I was told the All Natural WheySmooth Protein powder ( chocolate and vanilla) was safe, can you confirm?
A: Yes we have 2-different protein powders (and many dietary supplements, such as the Multivitamin and Mineral Formulas, other health supplements, etc.,) that are made in facilities with no potential cross contamination. The powders are All Natural WheySmooth and BestPlantProtein.  All the dotFIT products have the proper labeling to warn the customer of any potential peanut (or other such as shellfish, eggs, etc.) contamination. Please see the below FAQ for more, including a baseline supplement program you can incorporate.
Q: I'm a trainer and was wondering about the supplements that would be safe for our clients with peanut allergies or sensitivities?  I'm trying to keep everyone safe while getting them the best supplements they can use.

A: Please read every product label carefully as all ours contain the proper warnings (see below) including gluten, shellfish, peanut, etc., for products that are made in facilities that may also make products with peanut/wheat extracts such as one of our many powder manufacturers. Most of our pills/capsules such as fish oil, MVMs, calcium, joint support, etc., are made in facilities free of potential peanut cross-contamination and therefore, safe for your recommendations/use, thus warnings are not necessary. Last thing we want is for your clients to have a reaction, so please read all labels of products they are interested in for their fitness goals. Both our BestPlantProtein and All Natural WheySmooth your client can use as their protein supplement for their fitness goals since it’s made in the proper facilities. Therefore, I put a simple baseline supplement program below, you can use with your client. You can then add as needed, making sure you read all labels as this will be published on all labels only as needed: 
“Allergen Warning: This product was produced in a facility that may also process ingredients containing milk, eggs, fish, shellfish, tree nuts, peanuts, wheat, and soybeans.
Contains: Milk, Egg, and Soy (from soy lecithin)”.
General Sport Health, Activity Recovery & Performance Support Program -Level-1 (Baseline)
Click on product links for a brief product description including short video
Daily:
dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender (if 50yrs or older use Over50; if female under 50, use Women’s; Males and very active females under 50 use 2-Active; children under 12yr use Kids; children 12-17yr use 1-Active). Click on videos in the store under “Overview” for brief descriptions)
Take as directed  
Daily as needed:
All Natural WheySmooth,  ( or you could also use the BestPlantProtein powder)*
Use as directed to make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of LBM (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 5 times daily
If exercising use ~25gm 30-40min before workout & repeat dose immediately post workout (see below)
Can be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired supporting contents) to shore up total daily protein needs
Super Calcium (read all food labels for calcium content including dotFIT protein shakes)
Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food/shake intake
Females take 1 or 2 daily with meals; if you need to take 2, take one with AM meal and the 2nd with PM meal; Males take 1 only if necessary
Super Omega 3 
Take 1-2 daily with meal if not consuming 8-16oz/wk fatty fish (take 1 if >8oz/wk but <16; 2 if ≤8oz)
Workout days
All Natural WheySmooth or BestPlantProtein)*
Take 1- scoop 30-40min before workout & repeat same dose immediate after
From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Thursday, June 9, 2022 7:32 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Contact Us


 
Name: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Phone: [PHONE]
Message: Hi! I have a client that is allergic to shellfish, chicken, and beef. Is there any protein powder that would be able to accommodate her?
 

