Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. As long as there is nothing clinically wrong with you (diagnosed diseased state of some sort), there is little reason you cannot gain lean body mass (LBM) through resistance training and targeted nutrition. Your caloric intake needs (dotFIT program contains the diet information you need to get started) to be slightly above your maintenance and dietary support program, at this point should include Creatine Monohydrate along with baseline supplementation as shown below. Assuming you are not a member of one of our licensed facilities, I’m connecting you here with Mark Rowland (certified counselor and cc’d here) so he can get you pointed in the right direction including proper access to the tools you need, as necessary.
Thanks again and have a great night.

Level 1 – Performance/Size Plan with Creatine Monohydrate in Baseline (under 175LBS)
Click on product links for a brief product description including short video

ActiveMV - Multivitamin & Mineral Formula
 Take two (2) daily: one immediately following 1st large meal; one after final meal of the day.
Super Omega 3 
 Take 2 daily with meal 
Super Calcium (read all food labels for calcium content) 
 Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food/shake intake (using FirstString or other dotFIT protein powder regularly with a typical diet, calcium intake would probably meet calcium needs without supplementing)
 If needed take 1 with a meal
FirstString
 Take two (2) scoops 30-45 minutes before workout or use favorite dotFIT® bar for convenience.
 Take two (2) scoops 20-30 minutes after post workout AminoFormula dose.
 Use anytime throughout the day as a supplement to a meal or by itself mixed with desired ingredients to add protein/calories as needed to daily requirements.
 Be sure to ingest approximately 1 gram (g) of protein per pound of lean body mass (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 4-5 times daily along with the pre/post shakes (the pre/post shakes combined generally supply 50-60 g of the daily protein requirement).
CreatineMonohydrate Loading & Maintenance Strategy 
 Mix 1 scoop (5gms) with 4-8oz of favorite fluid/shake and take 4 times daily with a protein and/or carbohydrate containing meal/drink for first 5 days. Thereafter take 1-scoop once daily to maintain stores. To help maximize creatine uptake, split doses throughout the day with meals/drinks containing protein and/or carbohydrate
 Training days: take 1-scoop before or after your workout with meals/drinks. May mix with your pre & post training formula
 Non-training days* take 1-scoop with and meal or shake 

*May substitute favorite dotFIT Nutrition High Protein Bar based on venue convenience
 


 
Neal Spruce
CEO
Office. [PHONE]
Fax.     [PHONE]
Follow my podcast, SuppBeast, available on all channels!
           

From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Tuesday, April 28, 2026 1:38 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Contact Us
 

