Q: I have ordered your products for years and love them!! I use the protein powder daily. I have been reading a lot about lead poisoning in protein powders. I know you are 3rd party tested. Could you please address the issue of lead in your powders? Do you test for lead? How many servings daily is considered safe or maybe just a few servings weekly? 
Thank you

A: Thanks for contacting us. Yes, all products are tested for lead and ours are far below federal and global set limits, which our 3rd party testing validates. You may use any of our proteins daily with no issues. For reference, a cup of natural fresh spinach has more lead than a serving our proteins. See below for more information.
Thanks again and enjoy your protein shakes as needed. 

More Info
First, all anyone needs is the 3rd Party/NSF testing verification on the labels because those official companies cannot certify a product that is over the federal set limit of any natural compounds/metals including lead.
And yes, all our proteins are well below global and federal standards and again, validated by our 3rd party testing (NSF-CS and Eurofins). We use news/articles like this to sell our proteins. Also be mindful that there is always some lead (and other natural metals found in the earth), including in the air you breathe, in natural products (see note), but there is a set limit that you cannot exceed, and the testing confirms that. Again, all our powders are far below the federal and global limits, which is verified by NSF-CS and Eurofins our 3rd and 4th party testing.
On a side note, 1svg of natural spinach has 10times the allowed lead in any dietary supplement. In other words, most plant foods will always be above the allowed lead content for dietary supplements, especially the artificially low California only standard. Just make sure your supplements are 3rd party tested like all of ours and you will always be safe.


From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Thursday, January 22, 2026 5:08 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Contact Us


 
Name: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Phone: [PHONE]
Message: I have ordered your products for years and love them!! I use the protein powder daily. I have been reading a lot about lead poisoning in protein powders. I know you are 3rd party tested. Could you please address the issue of lead in your powders? Do you test for lead? How many servings daily is considered safe or maybe just a few servings weekly? Thnak you, Suzanne Huber
 

