Hi [CUSTOMER],
Always great to see you -albeit on camara:😊. The short answer is that the vast majority of dotFIT clients would rarely need a separate magnesium supplement if they are following their proper baseline supplementation and adding other dotFIT products as needed. And yes, the Tolerable Upper Limit Levels (UL) of magnesium is only 350mg. But as you mentioned, that is only means your supplemental magnesium should supposedly not exceed that number. However, spreading it out like you are, it is fine to go slightly over that UL (see below for more info from our Sleep Aid formula lectures). I also place a related Q & A below that might be helpful.
Hope this helps – and have great evening. 
Reach out anytime!

Esquivel et al. 2024-Current Evidence on Common Dietary Supplements for Sleep Quality
With regards to sleep, Magnesium (MG) has several essential functions that include; GABA activation (calming neurotransmitter), increases in melatonin production, muscle relaxation, regulation of stress- responses, regulation of calcium levels which promote muscle contraction and relaxation, and anti-anxiety effects. Furthermore, low magnesium status has been associated with chronic inflammatory stress in both animal and human research studies. However, despite its popularity, there are few clinical benefits to MG supplementation (MGS) in individuals with adequate serum magnesium. There is a potential for MGS in individuals with low serum magnesium to improve sleep quality.
Our world (dotFIT) should not be MG deficient/insufficient, therefore the 100mg add from Sleep Aid is safe and appropriate*
2 Active: 200mg
1 Woman’s: 100mg (b/c most need Ca supp)
2 Over50: 150mg
1 svg SuperBlend: 160mg
1 SuperCalcium: 125mg
2 Sleep Aid: 100mg
*UL of 350mg from supps is generally disregarded because it’s based on a single dose, not spread out as ours would be. Further, the Ca/mg ratio should be protected (2-3:1) 
Final Conclusion/takeaway: Meet ~400-500mg/d through diet and supplement intake that includes a complete MVM containing  MG and the other ~20 known under-consumed VMs: dotFIT MVM/Alln1 SuperBlend™ = 100-200mg; Sleep Aid =100mg; diet = 250mg; Daily total is ~450-550mg MG (2-300mg in supps), which would maximize MGs basic role in sleep quality mechanisms, making high dose separate MGS unnecessary and likely ineffective.
MG unique contribution: achieving proper MG intake as described here, offers a unique contribution to the enhancement of all the Sleep Aid’s ingredients mechanisms of action related to stress relief, mood, sleep quality and overall health since MG an essential mineral active in these myriad pathways and when shorted, all systems suffer.

Q: Will you all sell and magnesium supplement? Also, if my doctor is prescribing that I take one, are there any legit options? Not sure if you can answer that for me, but thank you for your time

A: Thanks for contacting us. We will not be making a separate magnesium supplement any time soon, and only because we do not have a large enough market in our distribution channel (sport and fitness and Practitioner channels) to support the large product runs necessary to be cost effective. And also because we have magnesium in all our multivitamin and mineral formula (MVM), Alln1 SuperBlend™ , SuperCalcium and some other products. Meaning for the majority of our users, when combining diet and supplements, would not need more magnesium, or they would be over the Tolerable Upper Limit Levels (UL). Of course there may be exceptions, such as yourself where a doctor has prescribed additional magnesium for something they diagnosed.
When searching for a separate magnesium supplement, look to the NSF website or another third-party certification.


 
Neal Spruce

From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Thursday, June 11, 2026 1:43 PM
To: [NAME] <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Thank you!

Thank you, Neal, as always for taking the time to go over dotFit and nutrition to help our member base. 

I have a question I have been meaning to ask around Magnesium since it has been a "hot supplement."

What is the real upper limit of magnesium? Sources state 350 mg for adults, but mostly in regard to supplementation. 

If it is 350-400 mg, and dotFit is supposed to be synergistic, would you recommend not taking the Alln1, Electrolytes, Glutamine Complex, and Sleep Aid all in one 24-hour period? 

I take the Alln1 daily, glutamine complex only on workout days (3-4 per week max), sleep aid 6/7 nights a week, and the electrolytes occasionally if I feel I am not retaining water/ struggling to stay hydrated. 

Just curious based on the amounts of magnesium (although different types) in the products: 
AllN1- 160mg
Electrolytes- 100 mg
Glutamine-34 mg
Sleep aid- 100 mg

Always interested in learning more! 

| EXCELFITNESS Building communities through fitness   excelfitness.com | Jessica Rude| Personal Training Manager + Team Player 1642 FM-423 S Frisco, TX 75033 (c) [PHONE] (e) [EMAIL]   an independently owned and operated Planet Fitness franchisee with clubs in TX, NC, OK, AR, VA, MO, UT, TN, GA |


