Hey [CUSTOMER],
Sorry for the delay but here is an oral GH secretagogue you asked about. See below for all info I summarized, knowing that results vary but anecdotal evidence favors some efficiency. I also put a place you can get it if you desire, because our 3rd party partner deals mainly with injectables at this point.
Call me if you have any questions. And of course you can do your own research to see if it makes sense for you or someone in your orbit to use.
Have a great day!

Ibutamoren (MK-677) Oral non-peptide* GH stimulant
Primary use: to increase the body’s natural growth hormone and IGF-1 levels to support muscle growth, recovery, and overall anabolic function without injections
Mechanism: mimics ghrelin (“hunger hormone”) to activate ghrelin receptors (GHS-R1a), which signals the hypothalamus & pituitary to increase natural GH pulse release; liver then produces more IGF-1 leading to an increase in protein synthesis and reduction in muscle breakdown
Typical dosing used in research and practice is ~10–25 mg once daily, usually taken in the evening (or split), with many starting at ~10 mg to assess tolerance and adjusting based on response

Notes: MK-677 is an oral compound that increases your body’s growth hormone by mimicking a hunger signal. That can help with recovery, muscle maintenance, and sleep—but it also makes you hungrier and can affect blood sugar, so it’s not a shortcut unless everything else is dialed in and human results vary and largely based on anecdotes. MK-677 is not FDA Approved and classified as a research compound.
*1 Ibutamoren (MK-677) is a small-molecule, non-peptide compound, specifically an orally active ghrelin receptor (GHS-R1a) agonist. It’s a synthetic, drug-like molecule (not a chain of amino acids like peptides designed to bind the ghrelin receptor and stimulate GH release. Its small-molecule structure is what allows it to be taken orally and remain stable in the body. Therefore MK-677 works like a drug, not a peptide—so you can take it orally and it still activates the GH pathway effectively
Our peptide/GLP-1 3rd party partner does not carry MK-677 - so see below.
Related information about MK-677 and access thru Nulevel Wellness


