Goal setting, monitoring and adjustments for Bodyfat Reduction While Preserving or Building lean body mass (LBM) 
Weight/Bodyfat Loss
All is contained in your dotFIT program including necessary weekly adjustments but below is a summary (if measuring body fat, measurements and adjustments are bi-weekly)

Weekly goal: lose .5-2LBS/week or ~.5-1% bodyfat every 2-weeks (the leaner you are, the slower you should go). Your target daily calories will average slightly lower than your daily burn allowing you to lose the goal bodyfat without compromising performance gains. The more overweight the greater the allowed weekly loss, with 2LBS loss being the maximum unless special circumstances prevail (e.g., tight timelines, aggressive action needed, etc.).

Monitoring: weigh/measure weekly in the same dress, at the same time and on the same scale and if applicable, same bodyfat measurement tool. As necessary (see below) only adjust calories in or out every 7 or 14 days.

Adjustments: a measurable or visual reduction in body fat and/or weight should take place in a relatively consistent manner, such as a decrease in circumference inches, and/or the desired average decrease in weight or body fat per week/biweekly (bodyfat measurements should be biweekly). If progress stops or slows dramatically, one or a mixture of the following adjustments is all that will be necessary to re-start the process:
Increase daily activities (e.g. daily steps* or other non-athletic/exercise activities)
Standing and pacing burns 2-3 times more calories than sitting for the same time
There are approximately 2000-2500 steps (depending on stride) in a mile. Walking 2000 steps will burn ~75-150 more calories (depending on individual size) than sitting for the same time and only takes ~20-30min and can be done anywhere, even in the office, while on the phone or watching TV, etc.
Increase cardio workout time and/or intensity and include interval training if necessary
Ex: if you do 30 minutes 3-5D/WK, go to 45min and add interval work within the time frame
Decrease food intake approximately 2-300 calories/day or remove a small portion of your largest meal and repeat this reduction if after 1 week there is no change in weight/body composition

Repeat the process any time weight/body fat is stable for one or 2 weeks (mindful everything is about the average up to date loss against the goal). Always remember if you are supplementing properly and you stop losing fat, you need to eat less, move/burn more or a combination of the two (changing foods within the proper calories can also increase calories burned) regardless of what you read or hear from others. As you lower calorie intake, make sure your protein intake stays at or above 1gm per pound of body weight to protect LBM and you continue to optimize your dietary support program.
When you have achieved your body composition goals, increase your calories to maintain desired body composition and weight.

*Average daily step goal is to eventually hit 10K steps. Take whatever time you need to get there – i.e., add as you can in a consistent manner, mindful it’s the average the counts.

