Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. We only distribute the one Plant Protein product where 1-serving has 280mg of sodium (the reason most vegan products are high in sodium is to mask the generally less desirable flavor of plant derived proteins).
That said, all our Amino Formula products are vegan friendly and can be used to add protein to the diet by complementing low protein meals, such as typical breakfast foods, plant-based meals, etc., – and of course because the body can make all the other necessary non-essential amino acids for protein synthesis as long as it has the proper essentials as found in the Amino Formula.
See below for a related FAQ on using Amino Formula to support recommended daily protein intake.
Thanks again and have a great day.

Q: There is no protein listed on AminoFormula (AF), can I count it as a protein?
A: You may add 25-40gm (1-2scoops) of protein to your daily protein intake when using AF as directed, but generally no more regardless of daily intake. The reason AminoFormula (AF) does not publish a protein amount is because it is purposely not a complete protein as it contains only the  essential amino acids that are directly responsible for protein synthesis activation and therefore serves as a low calorie, fast acting, high anabolic signaling product for activating muscle protein synthesis (MPS) beyond intact protein itself. Your total food/shake protein intake throughout the day supplies the remaining amino acids (and can be made in the body) necessary for the complete and prolonged synthesis. That said, AF can be used to fortify a low protein meal/food (e.g., plant based, low protein breakfast etc.,) to raise the total food protein biological (BV) - i.e., eliminate the AA limiting factor for MPS indigenous to weaker protein sources. Further, AF is vegan friendly.
More info:
AF serves to enhance the MPS process beyond protein alone or serve as a low calorie, high anabolic extra source of protein. A protein equivalent in 1-scoop of AF, is generally counted as ~25gms, as it takes ~25-35gms of a complete protein to get the amount of the EAA found in one serving of AF including the 6gms of BCAA. However, regardless of your total AF intake, we advise you only add it as 25-40gm of protein to your 1gm/LB/lean body mass(LBM)/day of protein needs. Mindful that active strength/performance athletes still maintain the 1gm/LB/LBM/D of whole/intact protein sources because different whole food protein has other helpful properties/nutrients including satiety.


From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Tuesday, May 19, 2026 6:43 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Contact Us


 
Name: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Phone: [PHONE]
Message: Greetings, Would dotfit have any protein products that are not dairy and low in sodium? I see you have some plant based protein products but the one's I see are high in sodium (per scoop), whereas your whey products (dairy based) are low in sodium (which is why we've purchased from you for so long). Jacques Latoison [EMAIL] Thank you
 

