Hi again Patrick,
Strength training is a good idea for all youngsters but particularly important for aspiring athletes of any age. Just make sure they are properly supervised including not over training or trying to just push heavy weights. Proper weight training for 12yr old can contribute positively to their overall development as long as it is complemented with proper nutrition. Below is what our Practitioners give to the parents of youth athletes that desire to maximize growth and development (the same applies to all growing youth).
Thanks and remember- “We Build Them Strong for Life: Fuel Growth, Sharpen Minds, and Power Performance.” 

Youth/Athlete Growth, Development, Performance, Recovery & Health Dietary Support Plan

Keep in mind all programs we create not only reduce the risk of injury, speed recovery, improve training/exercise induced results but also contribute to better overall health while maximizing growth (including height) and development potential. Proper nutrition makes our children and athletes better “on the field” and in the classroom.
The FirstString Protein mix/shake is a 3rd party tested and lactose free (as all our products) food product that we have the youth athletes (any active youth) we work with use for a pre and post activity shake for energy and recovery, and/or weight/muscle gain. Below is more information including incorporating FirstString into daily planning along with a multivitamin and mineral formula (MVM) to also aid recovery and fill important nutrient gaps common to youngsters. (If child has diet restrictions on animal protein, use the Best Plant Protein – Vegan product). 
Daily:  
ActiveMV or Alln1 SuperBlendTM (children under 12yr use Kids MV and take as directed)
Take-1 daily with meal until age 18; Then take 2 daily, one with AM meal and one with PM meal
Or take 1-scopp Alln1 SuperBlendTM (it contains the MVM and more)
Daily as needed:
FirstString
Use as directed to make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of LBM (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 5 times daily
Can be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired supporting contents) to shore up total daily protein and calorie needs for weight/muscle gain needs
SuperCalcium (read all food and shake labels) (using FirstString or other dotFIT protein powder regularly with other typical diet calcium intake would probably meet calcium needs without supplementing)
Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food/shake intake (2svgs FirstString supplies 400mg)
Use as directed to hit 1200mgs/day from food and/or supplements
SuperOmega-3
Take 1-2 daily with meal if not consuming 8-16oz/wk fatty fish (take 1 if >8oz/wk but <16; 2 if ≤8oz); not necessary if consuming ≥16oz/wk unless for athletic recovery purposes
Workout days
FirstString* - use as directed to get:
25-35gm/protein 30-40min before workout & repeat same dose immediately post exercise
*May substitute favorite dotFIT Nutrition High Protein Bar based on venue convenience


From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Wednesday, April 29, 2026 2:58 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Muscle Gain
Question: What are your thoughts on a 12 year old 6th grader starting to lift weights? He is a soccer, basketball, and cross country runner at his school and could really use the strength. I was thinking of switching my workout to a simple home based version with dumbbells and an adjustable bench and working out together. Concentrate on form and technique and track his progress. Maybe a 3 day split?
 

