Hi [CUSTOMER],
Sounds like a fun contest. You can lose weight/bodyfat as fast as you want depending on how much pain you want to take or how much muscle you are willing to sacrifice. Bottom line is the size of the calorie deficit and using supplements in filling gaps thus minimizing the nutrient deficits, controlling appetite and metabolism. Also remember, the more bodyfat you have, the easier it is to lose fat faster and the opposite is true. The leaner you are the more work you need to do to lose bodyfat.  
If you want to use the 3-days low, one day high, then once you figure out your maintenance calories, that becomes your high day with about 40% carbohydrates (CHO), 30% protein, 30% fats. Therefore as an example, if your high day is 2500caloires, then low days would be 1500caloires (unless you want to go very fast, then go lower such as 1000cals made up of mostly protein). The supplement program below (and attached for easy printing/reading) will support your lean body mass (LBM) and overall journey. Also be mindful you can use activity/exercise to increase the deficit along with cutting calories.
Keep me updated on progress and let me know if you need more info. We can always get on a call.
Good luck buddy!

 Level-3 Package for Accelerated Results & Daily Recovery with Meal Replacement/Substitute Integration Program
Click on product links for a brief product description including short video

Daily:
  dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral Active MVM
 Take as directed with meals
Super Omega 3 
Take 3 daily
  Weight Loss & Liver Support
 Take 3 daily as directed. 1- before each of 3 meals or evenly split throughout the day
  ThermAccel (TA) or CarbRepel (CR)
 Take as directed (TA 2tabs twice daily; CR 3tabs/day, 1 before each of 3-meals or evenly split throughout the day)
  LeanMR (protein and fiber rich meal replacement formula) 
 Use as directed within daily meal planning (see below) and to make sure you get ~1 gram of protein per pound of lean body mass (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources divided 4-5 times daily depending on preference
 Can also be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired ingredients) to shore up total daily protein needs
Workout Days:
  AminoFormula (AF)
 Take 1-scoop ~10 minutes before and may continue to drink during first 20 minutes of workout
 Take 1-scoop immediately following workout
Meal Replacement/Substitute Integration
You may also click here for a simple ready to go solution including sample menus with proper calories, foods and LeanMR meal replacement diet integration
Weight Loss Phase:
Meal Replacements (MRs) generally supply two small meals a day and allow freedom of choice from traditional foods for the remaining allotted foods/calories. Therefore, use as two small meals within any calorie restricted meal plan of 4-5 meals since frequent meals are often better for bodyfat/weight reduction than fewer larger ones especially as it relates to satiety, preservation of lean body mass (LBM) and energy levels. LeanMR recipes are available here
Maintenance Phase 
Continue to consume 4-5 small meals daily within caloric allotment that includes 2 MRs for convenience and to help ensure overall diet quality while reducing food costs. A wide variety of healthy recipes including meal replacement recipes are available here


From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Wednesday, February 8, 2023 11:02 PM
To: [NAME] <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Nic Olsen- FM Crunch Burbank- need your advice

Hey [NAME], hope you’re doing well and this is the right email to reach you.

My trainers and I are doing a little body fat loss contest and I want to show them the “Dotfit transformation”. 

The contest is 1 month long, ending March 7th.

Can you recommend the best dotfit bundle to succeed in this? Additionally, can you recommend a macro ratio?

I remember during the holiday you shared a competition cut routine. I believe it was 3 days low, 1 day high. 

Any specifics and advice would be greatly appreciated. Thank you for your time.

Best,


[NAME]
(719)358-1329 | [EMAIL]

