Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. I placed your 3 options below in using one of our coaches and/or program to achieve your fitness goals. The dotFIT program is free (you can also use it with your coach), and will give you a personalized program that will guide you to your goal. You can reach back out to one of our phone coaches for more information and on using the dotFIT program or finding a local live coach (Berlinda is cc’d here). I also placed your baseline supplement program below that will be necessary to feed your muscles while starving bodyfat, and also contains your pre & post workout protein supplement. After using the baseline supplement program below, and you want to take your fitness goals further, you can use our supplement screening tool to get the proper recommendations or reach out to one of our phone coaches for more information or questions.
Thanks again and have a great day!

3 options:
You can visit one of our licensed health clubs using the club finder http://www.dotfit.com/ClubFinder.aspx The expert fitness professionals in our licensed health clubs can give you direct service for all your fitness goals including nutrition needs (non-clinical). 
Alternately, if a club visit is not a viable option, you can receive all your diet, supplement and muscle gain (and/or fat loss) needs online from the dotFIT program. Go to the dotFIT home page and log in (using the icon in far upper right corner) and you will come to this page: http://www.dotfit.com/new-user-register (You may just click this link for now). From there simply follow instructions creating your program and setting your goal. The dotFIT program will give you the meal plan outline you can alter as desired with the proper calories, carbohydrates, fats and protein to get started, track intake and monitor results. It will also give you your supplement recommendations (I placed one below also) and exactly how to use them. Every week when you enter your weight and/or bodyfat, the program will tell you what to do until you reach your goal including recreating menus as necessary. Once you create the program and get menus, you can go to our recipe section on the dotFIT website to get recipes with meal preparation instructions including meal replacement recipes: https://www.dotfit.com/learn/recipes. There is also a complete exercise program you can use to create the proper program to accomplish your goal – and again, just answer the simple questions including entering your goal, and your exercise program will be created. However, if possible, we recommend one of our trainers to help you get started. On the dotFIT website you’ll also see a category called “Learn” where you will find many frequently asked questions and answers: https://www.dotfit.com/learn 
Reply again to this email or call us at [PHONE] and we will put you together with one of our phone coaches.


 Baseline Health, Recovery, Weight/Bodyfat Loss and Performance Supplement Program
Click on product links for a brief product description including short video
Daily:
dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender. If 50yrs or older use Over50 unless noted below; if female under 50 use Women’s; Males and very active females (competitive training protocols) under 50 use 2-Active, with both genders continuing use till 65yrs if still training competitively at which time every person will use Over50; children under 12yr use Kids; children 12-17yr use 1-Active). Adult Vegans use VeganMV
Take as directed with meals
WheySmooth or other favorite dotFIT protein mix (based on caloric allotment for goal)
Use as directed to make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of LBM (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 3-5 times daily
Can be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired supporting contents) to shore up total daily protein needs
As needed:
Super Calcium (read all food labels for calcium content including dotFIT protein shakes)*
Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food/shake intake
Females take 1 or 2 daily with meals; if you need to take 2, take one with AM meal and the 2nd with PM meal; Males take 1 only if necessary
Super Omega 3 
Take 1-2 daily with meal if not consuming 8-16oz/wk fatty fish (take 1 if >8oz/wk but <16; 2 if ≤8oz); not necessary if consuming ≥16oz/wk unless for athletic recovery purposes, then increase as directed
*All food labels including Protein Powders must contain calcium levels by serving so always check
Workout Days:
WheySmooth or other favorite dotFIT protein mix
Take 1scoop ~30-40 minutes before workout
Take 1-scoop immediately following workout
From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Sunday, February 26, 2023 5:08 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Weight Loss
Question: is there a coach near me? i am looking to loose @20-30 lbs. Unless there is a program to help assist with my goals
 

