Kristal, I was just informed by the flavoring ingredient supplier that the Alln1 SuperBlend does have orange oil that is used in the flavoring so depending on how sensitive to this particular ingredient your client is would depend on if they can use the product or not.  Other than that, there is no citrus ingredients used in the product. 

Thank you very much. I really appreciate the information.   Do you know if the other DotFit products (Lemonade Amino; Raspberry Lemonade Creatine; etc) if any of those use citrus oil, or if the citric acid is derived from actual citrus or if it's a synthetic citric acid?

Kristal, the manufacturer responded that there is no citrus oil in any of the AminoFormula products nor the CreatineMonohydrate, nor the ExtremeCreatineXXXL+.

There is citric acid used as an ingredient but the starting material is from corn and/or cassava so it would not be derived from actual citrus.

Let me know if I can help with anything else, please.



Hi [NAME],
Thanks for contacting us. This is a good question but because the Alln1 SuperBlendTM does contain a small amount of citrus acid (listed in “other ingredients”, meaning hardly measurable), which is from citrus fruits, it may be a problem for your client. I would have the client show the product to their allergy doctor to find out if this small amount of citrus acid would be a problem. Also, to your question, the product only uses the citric acid for flavoring. There are no citrus foods in the product. I’m also connecting you here with Chad (VP of Product Development) for more information, as necessary. He can check with our manufacturer.
The PDSRG for the Alln1 SuperBlendTM is in your trainer console. Click into the Alln1 SuperBlendTM icon and scroll down to this link “Nutrition Science Guide.” I have cc’d Kat here to help, as necessary.
Thanks again and stay tuned.          

From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Wednesday, November 29, 2023 9:18 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Supplements
Question: My client is interested in the new Superblend All-n-1, but she has a citrus allergy. The question is, does the Orange Burst flavor contain any actual citrus, or is it just "flavor"? Is there any other reason why someone with a citrus allergy shouldn't take this product? (I wasn't able to find the PDSRG on this specific product.) Thank you for your help.
 

