Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. We will help you lose that belly fat, mindful that no matter how much you work out or what exercises you perform, you won’t get rid of belly fat without a proper diet. You need to support your muscle (LBM) while losing body fat. Following the dotFIT program, including the supplement program below, will get rid of the belly fat, support LBM and give you the energy you need while pursuing the goal because you will be feeding your muscle while starving bodyfat. Please read all below and choose one of the 3 options to get started - and reach out any time to one of our phone coaches (cc’d Berlinda here) for more information or help.
Thanks again and good luck on your fitness journey. We will be with you all the way!

Spot reducing note
Losing body fat anywhere on the body requires consuming less calories than you burn regardless of the type of diet you consume. The goal is to find a diet that you’re comfortable with so you can stick with it until you reach your goal knowing there is no such thing as “spot reducing” – i.e. fat leaves the body from wherever it’s genetically programed to lose it, and sometimes the places you want it to leave from first does not happen till later – but it will happen if you stay in the calorie deficit. You do this by eating less, moving more or a combination of the two until you reach the goal.
Building or Maintain Muscle While Losing Body fat and The dotFIT Program
Building/maintaining muscle while losing body fat, depending on age and training experience (younger and less experience the easier and faster the gains), is not often easy to accomplish because the formula requires a few components that you need to adhere to: 1) daily menu plan that has the correct calories, foods including protein quantity matched to the body composition goal; 2) dietary supplement program to feed muscle while starving fat – i.e. deliver high nutrition with little to no calories – meaning you will need at least a multivitamin and mineral (MVM) and extra protein to help recover and maintain structural and functional integrity (when calories are limited to reduce body fat, you also limit the nutrients that would otherwise be contained in those calories); 3) regular unaccustomed resistance exercise. Additionally, we placed the minimal supplement program we use for exercisers to healthily speed recovery and results while supporting health and fat loss. 
Note: Make sure you consume daily between all food and protein shake sources close to 1gram of protein for every pound of lean body mass (LBM) or body weight (if not overweight) divided 4-5 times daily including using your protein shake before and after the workouts. See below. And As you progress, you can add additional supplementation if you continue to want to lose more body fat and/or gain more muscle by regularly updating your program with your weight/body fat measurements (it will automatically update the diet and supplements) - or use our supplement screener tool: https://www.dotfit.com/supplements-screener
3 options:
You can visit one of our licensed health clubs using the club finder http://www.dotfit.com/ClubFinder.aspx The expert fitness professionals in our licensed health clubs can give you direct service for all your fitness goals including nutrition needs (non-clinical). 
Alternately, if a club visit is not a viable option, you can receive all your diet, supplement and muscle gain (and/or fat loss) needs online from the dotFIT program. Go to the dotFIT home page and log in (using the icon in far upper right corner) and you will come to this page: http://www.dotfit.com/new-user-register (You may just click this link for now). From there simply follow instructions creating your program and setting your goal. The dotFIT program will give you the meal plan outline you can alter as desired with the proper calories, carbohydrates, fats and protein to get started, track intake and monitor results. It will also give you your supplement recommendations (I placed one below also) and exactly how to use them. Every week when you enter your weight and/or bodyfat, the program will tell you what to do until you reach your goal including recreating menus as necessary. Once you create the program and get menus, you can go to our recipe section on the dotFIT website to get recipes with meal preparation instructions including meal replacement recipes: https://www.dotfit.com/learn/recipes. There is also a complete exercise program you can use to create the proper program to accomplish your goal – and again, just answer the simple questions including entering your goal, and your exercise program will be created. However, if possible, we recommend one of our trainers to help you get started. On the dotFIT website you’ll also see a category called “Learn” where you will find many frequently asked questions and answers: https://www.dotfit.com/learn 
Reply again to this email or call us at [PHONE] and we will put you together with one of our phone coaches.

 General Health, Recovery, Weight Control/bodyfat Reduction/Toning and Performance Supplement Program
Click on product links for a brief product description including short video
Daily:
dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender. If 50yrs or older use Over50 unless noted below; if female under 50 use Women’s; Males and very active females (competitive training protocols) under 50 use 2-Active, with both genders continuing use till 65yrs if still training competitively at which time every person will use Over50; children under 12yr use Kids; children 12-17yr use 1-Active).
Take as directed with meals
WheySmooth or other favorite dotFIT protein mix (based on caloric allotment for goal)
Use as directed to make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of LBM (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 3-5 times daily
Can be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired supporting contents) to shore up total daily protein needs
As needed:
Super Calcium (read all food labels for calcium content including dotFIT protein shakes)*
Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food/shake intake
Females take 1 or 2 daily with meals; if you need to take 2, take one with AM meal and the 2nd with PM meal; Males take 1 only if necessary
Super Omega 3 
Take 1-2 daily with meal if not consuming 8-16oz/wk fatty fish (take 1 if >8oz/wk but <16; 2 if ≤8oz); not necessary if consuming ≥16oz/wk unless for athletic recovery purposes, then increase as directed
*All food labels including Protein Powders must contain calcium levels by serving so always check
Workout Days:
WheySmooth or other favorite dotFIT protein mix
Take 1scoop ~30-40 minutes before workout
Take 1-scoop immediately following workout


 
Sent: Friday, July 14, 2023 6:50 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Nutrition
Question: I would like something for me to lose my belly fat 
 

