Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. The percentage of macronutrients you are using now 40/30/30 is where most people will/should start when pursuing bodyfat/weight reduction goals. And yes, the dotFIT program gives you that type of menu. After you create your program, you will get a group of 10 different types of menus, all with the proper caloric allotment for your goal and the 40/30/30 is one of them. You can select this 40/30/30 as your reference menu that you can alter as desired staying within your goal targets. Therefore, once you set up your dotFIT program (it’s free), you will always know your macros. Just create an account and you can use it for all your diet and fitness needs including the amount of each macronutrient you consume or want information on. Further, you can connect other devices to the program. If you need help getting setup in the dotFIT program, I have cc’d Berlinda here to assist you. Below is more information on the dotFIT program for bodyfat reduction.
Thanks again and have a great Sunday!

Using the dotFIT Program: All your fitness needs including menu plans and achieving your body composition goal is contained in the dotFIT program (if you have a trainer, you can both use it). Go to the dotFIT home page and log in (using the icon in far upper right corner) and you will come to this page: http://www.dotfit.com/new-user-register (You may just click this link for now). From there simply follow instructions creating your program and setting your goal. Once you enter your personal statistics and goal, you’ll have all you need including proper diet. Every week when you update your measurements/weight or bodyfat, the program will automatically tell you what to do to stay on goal. There is also a complete exercise program you can use to create the proper program to accomplish your goal – and again, just answer the simple questions including entering your goal, and your exercise program will be created. However, if possible, we recommend one of our trainers to help you get started.
 Baseline Health, Muscle recovery, bodyfat reduction and Performance Supplement Program
Click on product links for a brief product description including short video
Daily:
dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender. If 50yrs or older use Over50 unless noted below; if female under 50 use Women’s; Males and very active females (competitive training protocols) under 50 use 2-Active, with both genders continuing use till 65yrs if still training competitively at which time every person will use Over50; children under 12yr use Kids; children 12-17yr use 1-Active);’ pure vegans use VeganMV
Take as directed with meals
WheySmooth or other favorite dotFIT protein mix (based on caloric allotment for goal)
Use as directed to make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of LBM (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 3-5 times daily
Can be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired supporting contents) to shore up total daily protein needs
As needed:
Super Calcium (read all food labels for calcium content including dotFIT protein shakes)*
Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food/shake intake
Females take 1 or 2 daily with meals; if you need to take 2, take one with AM meal and the 2nd with PM meal; Males take 1 only if necessary
Super Omega 3 
Take 1-2 daily with meal if not consuming 8-16oz/wk fatty fish (take 1 if >8oz/wk but <16; 2 if ≤8oz); not necessary if consuming ≥16oz/wk unless for athletic recovery purposes, then increase as directed
*All food labels including Protein Powders must contain calcium levels by serving so always check
Workout Days:
WheySmooth or other favorite dotFIT protein mix
Take 1scoop ~30-40 minutes before workout
Take 1-scoop immediately following workout





From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Sunday, July 30, 2023 10:48 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Nutrition
Question: Can you tell me the macros I need to aim for, or is there somewhere on this app where it will tell me? Right now I’m doing 40% protein, 30% fat and 30% carb. For my intended weight loss is there a different ratio I should be using? 
 

