Hey [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for the questions. Quick answers: 1) correct, no need to take an amino acid supplement in order to shore the aminos in a plant protein to make it equal to an animal protein because we fortified it; 2) the primary different coloring was from the addition of a natural choline, but be mindful that because we use all natural ingredients that coloring will always be slightly different just like nature; 3; the dotFIT Kid’s MV is started at age 2 but they should have been on one their entire life (prenatal, breastfeeding while still on the prenatal, and baby formulas, are all Multivitamin and Mineral Formulas). If you want to deep dive, see below.
Thanks again and have a great night!

More Info
MVM coloring
When we added choline to all our multivitamins and mineral formulas (MVM), which along with the fact we use all natural ingredients, the MVM may often look different. The newer major color change in your MVM is related to the choline addition. We sent a note to all our customers that you may have missed. See below in case you did not see the note.
Q: I have been ordering the dotFIT multivitamin for a few years now and the color has been primarily white. I just received a new shipment of the multivitamin and the color is a very odd yellow with brown spots. Just want to know if this is an intentional change or if I have a defective product.
A: Yes, all dotFIT multivitamin and mineral formulas are slightly different in looks, primarily because of the choline addition and new enteric coating. To a lesser degree on coloring and smell, all multiple vitamin and mineral (MVM) products that contain natural ingredients such as ours will have changing distinct features depending on ingredient harvesting and seasons including colors and even smell just like the plants they come from in nature. All our MVMs also use a delayed release feature so that your body absorbs and uses the ingredients more efficiently and we recently upgraded this, which also altered the coloring. At the end of the day, because our dietary supplements are in the 3rd party tested Practitioner product category, everything on the label is accurate no matter the color or taste and they follow the science - i.e., continually updated.
Kid’s MVM Supplementation
Dietary support to maximize your child’s structural and functional growth and development  - carry on from the prenatal
From the womb thru breastfeeding-prenatal MVM and Omega-3
Post breastfeeding till teeth (generally age 2) incorporate VM fortified baby formulas/foods
Ages 2-4yrs take 1 dotFIT COMPLETE Kid’s MVM (includes high D, C and now choline) and 1-omega if not feeding your child fish at least 2Xs/wk
Ages 5-11yrs take 2 Kid’s, proper protein amounts and add Omega-3 and calcium only as needed
Ages 12-17yrs take 1-ActiveMV, proper protein amounts and add Omega-3 and calcium only as needed

From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Wednesday, April 12, 2023 4:01 PM
To: [NAME] <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Few Questions

 
 Hey [NAME],
 
   Few quick questions for ya
 
 
1. The plant protein says it contains a complete amino profile. So I assume it isn't necessary to take amino supplement in addition to the best plant protein?
 
2. I've been taking active MV for few years and noticed different coloring. It went from light color pill to a dark-brown kinda grainy looking and now the most recent bottle I bought is back to the light color. What's that about?
 
3. What's the earliest age a kid can take a multi?
 
 
 Thanks in advance!
 
 
 


 
DUSTIN KASABO
REGIONAL DIRECTOR
 
GOLD’S GYM SOCAL
[ADDRESS]
[PHONE]
 
https://join.goldsgymsocal.com/
Enjoy a FREE Pass & Learn More About Gold's Gym
https://offers-socal.goldsgym.com/golds-gym-socal-corporate-wellness
 

Gold’s Gym SoCal refers to an association of independently owned and operated Gold’s Gym franchises which offer each other’s members certain reciprocal benefits. Each franchise maintains its own independent corporate status, having its own officers, directors, employees and contractors, and each operates under its own separate policies and procedures. 

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This e-mail, and any attachments, are intended solely for the use of the intended recipient and may contain information that is confidential, proprietary, copyrighted and/or legally privileged. Any unauthorized disclosure, distribution, or use of this information is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient, and have received this message in error, please notify the sender immediately by reply e-mail and destroy all copies of the original message and attachments. Your compliance is appreciated. 

