Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. Because you have high blood pressure, stay away from any product with stimulants such as caffeine. No matter what you decide to take, or we recommend, clear it with your doctor since you have had medical events, and on medication. The  CreatineMonohydrate (CR) product would be a good pre-workout by itself, but the ExtremeCreatineXXXL+ takes the same creatine monohydrate to the next level with added beta-alanine [BA] (workout intensity) and glutamine (recovery), making it a multi-ingredient non-stimulant pre-workout product.
See below for using the ExtremeCreatineXXXL+ as your pre-workout and daily creatine source. And again – show it to your doctor for his/her blessing.
Thanks again and have a great day!

Performance & Size Supplement Plan & Instructions with Standalone ExtremeCreatineXXXL+ in Baseline/AF (28 day to full BA/CR saturation) 
Daily
 dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender and follow label directions. If 50yrs or older use Over50 unless noted below; if female under 50 use Women’s; Males and very active females (competitive training protocols) under 50 use 2-Active, with both genders continuing use till 65yrs if still training competitively at which time every person will use Over50; children under 12yr use Kids; children 12-17yr use 1-Active. Vegans use 1-Vegan.

ExtremeCreatineXXXL+
 Take two scoops daily (5 g creatine, 3.2 g beta-alanine, 7 g L-glutamine) and continue throughout the desired training period (always take with some protein and/or carbs). 
On training days take one (1) scoop before training and one after. May mix in your pre and post workout shake or AminoFormula.
On non-training days, take one (1) scoop with morning meal or shake and one (1) scoop with evening meal or shake.
As needed
FirstString (or WheySmooth depending on daily calorie allotment)
 Use anytime throughout the day as a supplement to a meal or by itself mixed with desired ingredients to add protein/calories as needed to daily requirements.
 Be sure to ingest approximately 1 gram (g) of protein per pound of lean body mass (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 4-5 times daily along with the pre/post shakes (the pre/post shakes combined generally supply 50-80 g of the daily protein requirement).
SuperOmega-3 Fish Oils
 Take 1-2 daily with meal if not consuming 8-16oz/wk fatty fish (take 1 if >8oz/wk but <16; 2 if ≤8oz); not necessary if consuming ≥16oz/wk unless for athletic recovery purposes, then increase as directed
Workout days
FirstString (or WheySmooth depending on daily calorie allotment)
 Take two (2) scoops 30-45 minutes before workout or use favorite dotFIT® bar for convenience.
 Take two (2) scoops 20-30 minutes after post workout AminoFormula dose. 
AminoFormula
 Take 1 to 1.5 scoops (based on weight) approximately 10 minutes before workout. You may continue to consume during workout.
 Take one (1) scoop immediately following workout.


From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Tuesday, August 15, 2023 2:25 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Supplements
Question: Howdy! I am just starting my workout / weight lifting journey....as a 56 year old. I had two stents put into one of my arteries and i am on heavy blood thinners. In addition I have high blood pressure. I am already taking your AminoFormula and I am looking to add your Creatine to my routine. I am not worried about either of those. I would really like to add a pre-work out supplement to the routine, but I am worried about the large caffeine load. Do you have any advice? Thank you, Michael
 

