We will not. See the standard answer below and save it for future use (it’s in our Ask Experts) and morph it as you need it.
Thanks
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Supplements
Question: Is there another flavor? Of the creatine monohydrate than raspberry lemonade


Thanks for contacting us. We do not make other flavors of CreatineMonohydrate (CM). Many people will put CM in their smoothies or pre/post workout formulas such as the dotFIT proteins, AminoFormula, etc., for different flavors, which is also why keep a relatively neutral flavor for our CM. See below for a related FAQ and more information. Further, our licensed facilities have limited room on their shelves.
Thanks again and have a great day.

Hi [NAME],
Thanks for contacting us. We do not make other flavors of ExtremeCreatineXXXL+ (ECX) or CreatineMonohydrate (CM). Many people will put CM and/or ECX in their smoothies or pre/post workout formulas such as the dotFIT proteins, AminoFormula, etc., for different flavors, which is also why we keep a relatively neutral flavor for our CM/ECX. See below for a related FAQ and more information. Further, our licensed facilities have limited room on their shelves and can only carry a small number of SKUs.
Thanks again and have a great day.

Q: Will you make more flavors of ExtremeCreatineXXXL+?
A: We probably won’t make other flavor extensions of ExtremeCreatineXXXL+ (ECX) in the near future primarily because the demand is not high enough to justify a full run including the NSF-CS testing and our facilities only have so much shelf space for supplements so we must pick our battles. Most people do mix it there shakes including adding it in many different flavored smoothies. Further, because the flavor is mild it complements other products when mixed with them, such as the different flavors of the AminoFormula, which is commonly mixed with ECX.
See below for more information on flavor and product extensions.

More Info
We do not make another flavored ExtremeCreatineXXXL+(ECX) or CreatineMonohydrate because most of our facilities can only carry so much inventory (see below for more on making product flavor extensions or other niche products). ECX is purposely the current flavor so that it blends with any of the pre and post proteins and the different flavored Amino Formulas, since most people will mix it with those powders. The mild raspberry flavor also allows it to be mixed with juices of preference if you would like to alter the taste.
The only reason we don't come out with products the way everyone would want them produced (and there are many requests), would be because at this point in time within our sport/fitness practitioner product distribution channel, we don't have a large enough respective market to produce a niche product/flavor in the quantities necessary to be even slightly competitive with currently available specialty product lines that cater to unique markets. You must produce 10s of thousands at one time of each product to be price competitive as we do for all other products we sell with the additional cost of 3rd party/NSF testing. Doing this with a unique requested particular product/flavor, because our market for that specialty product or flavor is limited, most of the product would expire before we sold it, leaving a huge waste and lost revenues.
When the market increases for other flavors, sizes or particular products driven by our practitioner distribution channel, we will add them as necessary. Moreover, our licensed outlets only have so much room for inventory making them unable to carry many different flavors/sizes of the same product and therefore only carry top sellers.


From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Tuesday, August 29, 2023 4:46 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Supplements
Question: When will there be different flavors of Creatine XXXL? I purchased mine at UFC Gym. I’m tired of the same flavor and can’t do the same flavor anymore
 

