Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. First, none of our proteins contain lactose (ultra-filtration process removes the lactose from the whey protein extract) or cost $80; 2nd, none contain any kind of nut; 3rd, our labels are all legally correct, meaning if a product was made in a facility that makes other products that may contain peanuts, dairy, etc., (i.e., possibility of accidental cross contamination) it will be on the label; 4th, Many of our products are made in facilities that do not make products with peanuts, dairy, wheat, etc., So make sure you read the labels; 5th, as it relates to proteins and worried about cross-contamination, both our BestPlantProtein powder and All Natural WheySmooth your daughter can use, as their protein supplement for their fitness goals since it’s made in the allergen-free (clean rooms) facilities and 3rd party tested. Therefore, we suggest the baseline nutrition program below that we give to all active persons as a staring point for your daughter. 
And finally, as it relates to samples:
Regarding samples: 
We do not have samples because we are primarily a B to B business (wholesaler) and therefore our licensed facilities/gyms offer the samples. In our licensed clubs, their trainers generally will have samples for members once a month. Other dotFIT Certified Practitioners/trainers (including the dotFIT Elite and fibr-Pros) give samples to clients through their Fit-Pro Rewards that they are awarded every month through supplying people with their nutrition needs. Further, we have always resisted samples to help protect the environment from single serving packaging. 
All this said, as a onetime offer, if you purchase a dotFIT protein (such as WheySmooth, BestPlantProtein, etc.,) and for some reason don’t like it, Berlinda is cc’d here to exchange it for something else or offer a refund. If you do not have a trainer or health club discount, Berlinda can get you a 30% off SRP coupon for this order including anything else you may want, otherwise your trainer/club discount will be applied. 
Thanks again and please reach out to Berlinda for more. 


General Sport Health, Activity Recovery & Performance Support Program -Level-1 (Baseline)
Click on product links for a brief product description including short video
Daily:
dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender. If 50yrs or older use Over50 unless noted below; if female under 50 use Women’s; Males and very active females (competitive training protocols) under 50 use 2-Active, with both genders continuing use till 65yrs if still training competitively at which time every person will use Over50; children under 12yr use Kids; children 12-17yr use 1-Active);’ pure vegans use VeganMV
Take as directed  
Daily as needed:
All Natural WheySmooth,  ( or you could also use the BestPlantProtein powder)*
Use as directed to make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of LBM (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 5 times daily
If exercising use ~25gm 30-40min before workout & repeat dose immediately post workout (see below)
Can be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired supporting contents) to shore up total daily protein needs
Super Calcium (read all food labels for calcium content including dotFIT protein shakes)
Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food/shake intake
Females take 1 or 2 daily with meals; if you need to take 2, take one with AM meal and the 2nd with PM meal; Males take 1 only if necessary
Workout days
All Natural WheySmooth or BestPlantProtein)*
Take 1- scoop 30-40min before workout & repeat same dose immediate after




From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Friday, October 13, 2023 1:55 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Contact Us


 
Name: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Phone: [PHONE]
Message: Hi, Is it possible to get samples of your product? Our dietitian recommended one of your protein powders, but I am concerned about whether the product will upset my daughter’s stomach. I have a daughter with an eating disorder and I need to support her to gain weight. However, she also has a lot of food sensitivities, including tree nuts (including coconut) and dairy (not just lactose). Is it possible to get samples of your product anywhere before I spend (another) $80 for a (another) big container of protein powder that upsets her stomach)?
 

