Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. The dotFIT program contains the healthy menu plans that will suit your needs, including helping you achieve your body composition/weight goal, which is important to person’s that have been determined to be pre-diabetic or a type-2 diabetic that properly manages their insulin (have your doctor approve). I have also cc’d one of our Corporate dieticians here in case you need more information. Read below to get started using the dotFIT program. We also placed a baseline dietary support program below to help achieve health, strength, muscle gain and endurance you are seeking (have your doctor approve as necessary).
Thanks again and have a great day!

Using the dotFIT program : All your fitness needs including personalized menu plans and achieving your body composition goal is contained in the dotFIT program (if you have a trainer, you can both use it). Go to the dotFIT home page and log in (using the icon in far upper right corner) and you will come to this page: http://www.dotfit.com/new-user-register (You may just click this link for now). From there simply follow instructions creating your program and setting your goal. Once you enter your personal statistics and goal, you’ll have all you need including diet. Every week when you update your measurements/weight or bodyfat, the program will automatically tell you what to do to stay on goal.

Using the dotFIT Program: You can use the dotFIT program at no charge for all you diet, weight loss and health and fitness needs. Read all below to get started and we will be with you all the way! It takes less than 7minutes to get your complete program, including meal plans, protein, carb, fats, calories, dietary support, etc. You can reach to one of our phone coaches (Berlinda is cc’d here) for more information or questions on using the program.
All your fitness needs including menu plans and achieving your body composition goal is contained in the dotFIT program (if you have a trainer, you can both use it). Go to the dotFIT home page and log in (using the icon in far upper right corner) and you will come to this page: http://www.dotfit.com/new-user-register (You may just click this link for now). From there simply follow instructions creating your program and setting your goal. Once you enter your personal statistics and goal, you’ll have all you need including diet. Every week when you update your measurements/weight or bodyfat, the program will automatically tell you what to do to stay on goal including using the dietary support program below.

Or, you can simply use the LeanMR Meal Replacement Program, which is the most popular for weight/bodyfat loss and maintenance. As shown below, the complete program is the most successful, simple and common dietary support and weight loss meal substitute/replacement program that you can incorporate into your daily meal plans. Following this simple program, will help control appetite, ease your journey and speed results while supporting health and lean body mass during weight loss, and most importantly support weight maintenance. You can click here https://www.dotfit.com/MRweightlossplans for a simple ready to go solution including sample menus with proper calories, foods and LeanMR meal replacement diet integration. 
 Baseline Health, Recovery, Weight Control and Performance Supplement Program
Click on product links for a brief product description including short video
Daily:
dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender If 50yrs or older use Over50 unless noted below; if female under 50 use Women’s; Males and very active females (competitive training protocols) under 50 use 2-Active, with both genders continuing use till 65yrs if still training competitively at which time every person will use Over50; children under 12yr use Kids; children 12-17yr use 1-Active). Vegans use 1-Vegan
Take as directed with meals
Daily as needed:
WheySmooth or other favorite dotFIT protein mix (based on caloric allotment for goal)
Use as directed to make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of LBM (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 3-5 times daily
Can be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired supporting contents) to shore up total daily protein needs
SuperCalcium (read all food and shake labels) (using FirstString or other dotFIT protein powder regularly with other typical diet calcium intake would probably meet calcium needs without supplementing)
Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food/shake intake
Females take 1 or 2 daily with meals; if you need to take 2, take one with AM meal and the 2nd with PM meal; Males take 1 only if necessary
SuperOmega-3
Take 1-2 daily with meal if not consuming 8-16oz/wk fatty fish (take 1 if >8oz/wk but <16; 2 if ≤8oz); not necessary if consuming ≥16oz/wk unless for athletic recovery purposes
Workout days
WheySmooth* or other favorite dotFIT protein mix
Use as directed to get ~25-35gm/protein 30-40min before workout & repeat dose immediately post workout 
*May substitute favorite dotFIT Nutrition High Protein Bar based on venue convenience


From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Sunday, October 8, 2023 10:41 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Nutrition
Question: Type 2 diabetes- what type of nutrition do you have to help achieve health, strength, muscle gain and endurance?
 

