Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. The LeanMR is a specialized structured meal replacement (MR) that you would generally not use for a pre and post workout supplement because of the high fiber. The Pre/Post Workout and Meal Replacement  Formula (PPWMR) can be used both as a MR  and as your pre/post workout supplement. Mindful that the great part of protein powders is that you can add desired extra nutrition to get the calories, fiber, and macros that you want. The LeanMR starting formula has 6gms of fiber while the PPWMR has virtually none, but you can add as desired, therefore it can be used for both purposes. If you choose to use the LeanMR for managing bodyfat/weight, then you would use the AminoFormula for your pre/post workout supplement (see below). We also placed below a brief description of all dotFIT protein powders. Feel free to contact Berlinda (cc’d here) to talk to a live coach for more information.
Thanks again and have a great day.
 Control/Lose Bodyfat, Build/Support Muscle & Health Supplement Program – Level 2
Click on links for brief product descriptions including short video
Daily:
dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender. If 50yrs or older use Over50 unless noted below; if female under 50 use Women’s; Males and very active females (competitive training protocols) under 50 use 2-Active, with both genders continuing use till 65yrs if still training competitively at which time every person will use Over50; children under 12yr use Kids; children 12-17yr use 1-Active);’ pure vegans use VeganMV
Take as directed with meals
LeanMR other favorite dotFIT protein mix
Use as directed within daily meal planning (see below) and to make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of lean body mass (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources divided 4-5 times daily
Can also be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired supporting contents) to shore up total daily protein needs
As needed
SuperOmega 3 
Take 1-2 daily with meal if not consuming 8-16oz/wk fatty fish (take 1 if >8oz/wk but <16; 2 if ≤8oz); not necessary if consuming ≥16oz/wk unless for athletic recovery purposes, then increase as directed
Workout days
AminoFormula (AF) 
Take 1--scoop ~5-10min before and may continue to drink during workout to ~ midpoint
Take 1 scoop immediately following workout
Meal Replacement Integration 
Weight loss phase:
Meal Replacements (MRs) will supply two small meals a day and allow freedom of choice from traditional foods for the remaining allotted foods/calories. Therefore, use as two small meals within any calorie restricted meal plan of 4-5 meals. See sample plans here  and adjust as needed. 
Get LeanMR recipes here 
Maintenance phase 
Continue to consume 4-5 small meals daily within caloric allotment that include 1-2 MRs for convenience and to economically help ensure overall diet quality
You can go to our recipe section on the dotFIT website to get recipes with meal preparation instructions including meal replacement recipes.
Using dotFIT program: go to the dotFIT home page and log in (using the icon in far upper right corner) and you will come to this page: http://www.dotfit.com/new-user-register (click this link for now). From there follow instructions creating your program and setting your goal. Once you enter your personal statistics and goal, you’ll have all you need including diet. Every week when you update your measurements/weight or bodyfat, the program will automatically tell you what to do to stay on goal. Get more  menu examples here



 


 
Neal Spruce

From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Thursday, April 27, 2023 4:23 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Supplements
Question: Right now I'm taking LeanMR and I noticed you have a pre/post protein powder. Which one is better for a workout and also lose weight? Thanks
 

