Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. Because of your questions, we are assuming you are a fitness professional with access to the dotFIT trainer console where everything you need to know about the dotFIT Multivitamin and Mineral Formulas, including videos, are housed. However, to make sure you get access, I’m connecting you with Berlinda to get what you need.
The difference between the ActiveMV and the Over50 is just that. The majority of the over 50 population will use the Over50MV (minor differences but no iron is the big one). Males under this age use the Active as well as very active females. Again, I have cc’d Berlinda here in case you need more help. See below for complete information including a FAQ.
Thanks again and have a 4th of July weekend!


More information

Women’s MV Recommendation
Women 18-50yrs (non-vegans) who are not using the ActiveMV (see ActiveMV criteria/software recommendation*)
Activity levels defined as sedentary thru recreationally active (most females exercising 3-6 times/week)
Females not using doctor recommended prenatal multivitamin and mineral formula
Take one daily immediately following first food meal of the day
*Intense/competitive training female athletes 18-65 years (participating in daily extended vigorous training sessions and regularly controlled energy intakes), take 2-Actives 
Note: 1 Women’s MVM contains more VMs than 1 Active, but slightly less than 2 Actives, with some minor adjustments in specific VM amounts based on female diet and needs

FAQ
Q: I am interested in a good Multivitamin and Mineral Formula (MVM) to take daily. I am a 56year old very active woman. I do strength training 3 times a week, cycle 200miles/week and walk and run 25-30 miles weekly.
A: The MVM that would support your activities and longevity would be the ActiveMV, which covers the needs of very active individuals up to the age of 65yrs at which point all people switch the Over50MV. See below for more info, mindful that the dotFIT program automatically selects the proper MVM once you enter your individual information.
More Info
Below is the dotFIT MVM usage table contained in the program. Click on links for brief product descriptions including short video
Proper age, activity, size and gender dosing
Ages 2-11 yrs: (2-4yr take 1; 5-11yr take 2)KidMV
All 12-17 yrs: 1 ActiveMV 
Women 18-50 yrs:  take 1 daily Women’sMV* 
Males 18-50 yrs: 2 ActiveMV 
All hard training male and female athletes 18-65 yrs: 2 ActiveMV
50+ yrs: take 2 daily Over50 Everyone except athletes using ActiveMV 
65+ yrs: take 2 Over50 – Everyone
Vegan/VegetarianMV adult alternative: take 1 VeganMV
*From PDSRG: At 18yrs based on size and/or activity, women (and men) would switch to two Active MVs daily if consistently vigorously active. Recreationally or typically active females begin the Women’sMV formula, at one 1 daily to achieve the same correction
  
From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Friday, June 30, 2023 11:57 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Supplements
Question: What is the difference between ActiveMV #1005 & Over 50MV #1009
 

