dotFIT™ FirstString™
Goal
To provide a product containing ideal performance enhancing nutrition which can be properly integrated within daily meal planning and training protocols, is also NSF Certified for Sport and meets NCAA athletic guidelines for protein and carbohydrate content. Based on the current scientific evidence, FirstString (FS) is designed to provide the ideal rapidly digesting powdered “food-form” training formula for size, strength and performance athletes, further defined as purely anaerobic (e.g. off-season bodybuilders, power lifters, sprinters, etc.), intermittent (most team sports – i.e. combined intermittent aerobic and anaerobic activity such as football, soccer, basketball, baseball, rugby, hockey) and short to medium distance endurance athletes. Further, the FS food form formula including the macronutrient ratio, (carbohydrate, protein, fat content) is ideal for supporting youth growth and development, including height, pre and post puberty. Additionally, because of FS mixing qualities, it serves as a great delivery system for important foods such as fruits, vegetables, milk, etc., that are often shorted in growing children’s diets – i.e., delicious nutritious smoothies.   
FS contains a mix of protein (P), carbohydrates (CHO) and fats (F) that when daily ingestion is timed properly around strenuous activity, FS has the potential to maximize all training-induced results while also helping prepare the body optimally from a nutrition standpoint, for its next training/competitive bout. Used as recommended, FS is strategically formulated so that pre-exercise ingestion helps fills the body’s glycogen stores while delivering a rapidly digesting protein containing a high content of essential amino acids (EAA) including the branched chain amino acids (BCAA), particularly leucine, to reduce muscle breakdown during exercise. Post exercise ingestion maximizes the muscle protein synthesis (MPS) response during the important so-called exercise-induced metabolic window (0 to ~90 minutes post activity), when muscle nutrient sensitivity is at its highest point, thus the body’s potential for muscle protein synthesis and glycogen replenishment. Therefore, when used as directed within daily meal planning and strenuous activity, FS can maximize the training session, recovery process and overall gains to help each workout/competition improve upon the last. Additionally, FS is ideal as a weight gain supplement to increase food calories for those needing quality weight gain (e.g., muscle).
Rationale
It is well documented that the athletes described above require a specific range of P, F and CHO based on body weight, activity type, intensity and duration to maximize performance.,,,,,,,,, Although a “food form” training supplement should be designed to satisfy these requirements, recommendations are often by-passed based on: 1) body weight or composition goal; 2) preferences; 3) potential for gastric upset; 4) being uninformed, misinformed, or simply choosing to ignore them;1,3,,,,,,, and 5) experimenting with newly, but undocumented, proposed performance enhancing, or other currently popular diet plans.,,, Because CHO is the body’s preferred energy source and in a constant higher rate state of flux than protein or fat, it has always been accepted that athletes who are not focused on weight or body fat reduction require a higher percentage of dietary carbohydrate compared to protein or fat if they want to perform at their highest potential.1,4,6,7,8, Despite tinkering with CHO or fat periodization diets with the goal of delaying fatigue to improve performance (see note below*), CHO intake for most athletes continues to be recommended higher than the other two macronutrients,9,10,,, with the possible exception of shorter completely anaerobic activities such as weight/power training.,  Therefore, to maximize glycogen (energy) stores for most athletes, especially pre and post exercise, dietary CHO grams per pound of body weight will exceed protein and fat if improving/maximizing performance is the goal.1,7,8,9,10,23,24,25,, 
Note 
The first nutrition goal for all athletes is to cover protein needs or muscle protein synthesis (MPS) cannot optimally proceed, which would make all exercise induced gains fall short of potential, or worse, reverse progress.3,9,10,12,,,,, ,,,, Daily protein requirements to maximize MPS will generally top out at approximately 1 gram per pound of body weight,2,3,9,10,12,30,31,32,33,34,35,36,37,38 except during extreme dieting,3,12,38,,, leaving ample room (calorically speaking) for CHO intake to adequately fill the athletes glycolytic energy system to provide the body the energy potential to perform throughout the given activity at its highest level.4,7,8,,9,10,18,22,23,24,25 (See carbohydrate recommendation below). Once these two macronutrient needs are met, the remainder of allotted calories can come from dietary fats.1,7,8,9,10,22,23,24,25,, Therefore, depending on the activity and its duration, daily CHO intake for most performance athletes (not engaged in prolonged calorie restriction) generally range between 50-70% of total caloric intake, protein 15-35% and fats 10-30% (i.e. the remainder). And finally, although supplemental protein by itself before and immediately following activity can decrease muscle protein breakdown and enhance MPS during the so-called “metabolic window”,30,31,35,,,,, supplemental protein with CHO appears to have a greater effect not only on the refilling of glycogen stores, but also MPS partially due to an enhanced insulin response.9,10,29,45,,,,,,, 
The FS profile of ~2:1 CHO to P ratio and low fat is designed to help fulfill the aforementioned athlete’s macronutrient needs throughout the day. Because of its rapid digesting whey protein and specialized CHO mix, FS also provides an ideal starting mix or standalone pre/post activity formula to maximize the training/competition session and subsequent outcomes. Mindful that if additional CHO is needed, such as for endurance athletes or CHO loading, it can be added to the mix as needed including specialized blends. To learn more about special bioengineered carbohydrates, Practitioners can go to the Carbohydrate Structure Database (CSDB, http://csdb.glycoscience.ru) and the database of Chemical Entities of Biological Interest (ChEBI) to learn more about advances in applications of the new generation of carbohydrates.
Refueling & Rebuilding Muscles
Protein is essential to life, and while carbohydrates are not deemed as such, they are crucial to performance. Therefore, it would be remiss to ignore dietary carbohydrate (CHO) recommendations for maximizing performance since CHO supplies the majority of the energy that powers muscular activity. After substantial energy/glycogen depletion, the mean hourly rate of replacement is ~5–6 mmol (or 5–6%), therefore it can take approximately 24 hours to refill stores.8,9,10, As with MPS, immediately following exercise and up to four hours,35,36,37,38,45 there is a high potential for muscle glycogen storage as a result of the depletion-activated stimulation of the glycogen synthase enzyme and exercise-induced increases in muscle membrane permeability and insulin sensitivity.53,54,, This potential can be reached if CHO is consumed within this period. If not, refueling rates are significantly lower.8,9,10,45,50,54 This “window” of opportunity for glycogen storage during the early post-exercise period is part of the “metabolic window” concept (discussed below) because as with muscle protein synthesis rates, glycogen synthesis rates decrease after this time-frame even if CHO feeding is continued properly.4,8,9,10,28,45,50  Therefore, notwithstanding the above notes on CHO and fat Periodization experimenting, the basic strategy for muscle repair, synthesis and refueling, including maximizing muscle liver and glycogen stores and utilization for performance athletes is as follows:
Carbohydrates amounts and timing1,4,8,9,10,19,28,45,50,57,, 
Overall CHO intake should be between 50-70%, depending on activity type, duration and intensity, of total calorie intake and spread throughout the day with focus on the pre and post exercise period. 
Most athletes to maximize muscle/liver glycogen stores CHO range is ~3.6–5.5g/LB/day
2-4 hours before exercise (depending on gastrointestinal comfort) consume ~0.5 g/lb of body weight of CHO within the pre-workout meal. 
Begin consuming 0.4-0.5 g/lb of body weight of CHO soon after exercise. Endurance athletes would continue this target each of the next 4 hours post exercise, before resuming the normal eating pattern. Anaerobic (e.g. off-season bodybuilders, power lifters, sprinters, etc.), intermittent (most team sports – i.e. combined intermittent t aerobic and anaerobic activity such as football, soccer, basketball, baseball, rugby, hockey) athletes following the immediate post CHO and protein dose, could resume normal eating patterns (e.g. every 3-4 hours) that meet overall energy needs. 
Basic CHO recommendation ranges based on body weight and activity fuel needs: 
Low intensity activity: 1.4-2.25 g/lb/day
Moderate exercise of approximately 1 hour: 2.25-3.0 g/lb/day
Endurance-type program (1-3 hrs/day of moderate-high intensity exercise, such as team sport practices, running, etc.): 2.75-4.5 g/lb/day
Ultra endurance program (>4-5 hrs/day of moderate-high intensity training): 3.6-5.5 g/lb/day
Pre-competition (“Loading”) vary according to duration of exercise
2.7g/LB/d <90 min of exercise
4.5–5.5g/LB/d >90 min of exercise
.45–1.8g/LB final “top-off” 1–4h prior to event
Try to finish solid foods 3h before the event
During exercise
Depending on sport, 3-6oz water or sports drink every 15min
High intensity (> 70% VO2Max) exercise >90 min, consume 30-60g of CHO/h in a 6-8% CHO-electrolyte solution
Glucose/electrolyte solutions to maintain blood glucose levels, prevent dehydration, and reduce the immunosuppressive effects of intense exercise. 

Protein amounts and timing
The 20 AAs contained in complete protein sources are required for muscular recovery, growth and development. 8 of the 9 EAAs are the signaling molecules necessary to trigger MPS while the remaining AAs are needed to complete and prolong the process. Animal proteins are superior to plant sources in supplying the AAs necessary for human muscle development with whey protein rated at the top, primarily because of whey protein’s digestibility and EAA content per gram of protein. 1 gram of protein per pound of LBM divided and timed properly throughout the day including exogenously supplied EAA exposure in close proximity to exercise, has been scientifically proposed to maximize muscle hypertrophy/performance, while minimizing body fat stores. Further, the amount of protein per meal, regardless of the ambiguous “muscle full effect,” (how much skeletal muscle can use/incorporate from one feeding) to maximize MPS (net protein balance) should be primarily determined by total activity and body weight or LBM and suggested to be .18-.25 g/lb of LBM (.18-.25 g/lb of body mass). Whey protein, because if its digestibility 
rating and greater EAAs content per gram of protein/calories, is a preferred supplement to help accomplish the protein requirements for maximizing exercise-induced muscle hypertrophy, activity recovery and performance unless an individual’s diet restrictions prohibit its use.
Daily protein requirements to maximize MPS will generally top out at approximately 1 gram per pound of body weight daily,2,3,9,10,12,30,31,32,33,34,35,36,37,38 (15-35% of total calories) except during extreme dieting when protein needs increase in order to preserve LBM.3,12,28,39,40 Therefore, 1 g/lb/day of body weight is a simple formula that works for almost all athletes under most conditions and should be evenly distributed throughout the day generally 3-4hours apart and include the before and after activity fast acting protein and carbohydrate formula as mentioned above. 
Protein (amino acid) Timing 
Muscle protein dynamics (breakdown and synthesis) involves approximately four hour cycles (Figure 4) in which following digestion of a protein rich meal, synthesis is greater than breakdown but returns to baseline within four hours at which time breakdown begins to exceed synthesis until another protein meal is consumed and digested.2,30, ,, Therefore in exercisers/athletes, it has been long proposed that to maximize MPS, a person should consume protein in three to four hour intervals including before and after exercise when there becomes an exaggerated potential for MPS (see next section and Figure 5). Arguments often surface on the timing of protein ingestion’s relationship in maximizing MPS, such as, albeit in the minority, “it doesn’t matter when you eat your protein as long as you get enough daily protein.”35, For serious hard training athletes, the argument is unintuitive and frankly meaningless. Considering its well documented (see references above) for athletes to maximize MPS, they are recommended to eat ~1 g/lb/LBM/day of protein (many sports nutrition experts recommend protein at .73-1.0 g/lb of body weight/day and higher amounts during body/weight loss), why wouldn’t you spread it out throughout the day to match the protein balance cycles including before and after a workout? Consuming a day’s total recommendation of protein in two to three meals daily would be uncomfortable at best, and over time, based on being in a negative protein balance more hours than a positive one, logically the subject should have less exercise induced gains compared to a counterpart consuming protein when the body is ready to use it based on natural cycling – i.e. every three to four hrs.9,36,37,45,, Further, there would be no possibility of a MPS advantage, shown in many studies, if not consuming protein (fast acting, such as a shake) before and/or after training.9,36,37,45,46, ,,,,,,,
Figure 4 - Natural Muscle Protein Balance in Non-exercising Young Adults. Source: Adapted from Phillips et al.30 
The processes of MPS and MPB in post pubertal healthy humans up to ~30 years in the normal (non-exercised) state. Protein synthesis fluctuates with protein intake and fasting across the diurnal cycle, and changes in the increases in muscle protein mass are equaled by losses. Note: Cost of MPS & MPB (protein turnover):  1.04 Kcal/g and ~1-2% of all protein replaced daily,30,32,33,75The processes of MPS and MPB in post pubertal healthy humans up to ~30 years in the normal (non-exercised) state. Protein synthesis fluctuates with protein intake and fasting across the diurnal cycle, and changes in the increases in muscle protein mass are equaled by losses. Note: Cost of MPS & MPB (protein turnover):  1.04 Kcal/g and ~1-2% of all protein replaced daily,30,32,33,75

Exercise Induced “Metabolic Window”
The so called “metabolic or anabolic window” is a period when there is an exaggerated anabolic potential created by exercise and realized by the simultaneous presence of exogenous amino acids within a specific timeframe. This convergence results in a period of enhanced MPS that would potentially contribute to improved daily recovery, and thus greater long-term gains, as opposed to no AA feeding during this opportune timeframe where nutrient sensitivity is heightened from exercise-induced muscular damage. As shown in Figure 5, the proposed timeframe would begin immediately following exercise at which point the anabolic potential would be at its highest and slowly wane until ending 90-120 minutes post-exercise. Thus the “window” is open widest upon exercise cessation, slowly closing to baseline during the next 90-120 minutes. Although theoretical, there is no downside to this practice. Yet as many studies have demonstrated, there may be a significant recovery/MPS incremental upside that may not be accounted for at another point in time without this regular pre/post exercise feeding (i.e., not a complete “catch up”), even when all things are equal (e.g., total daily protein intake, exercise protocol, etc.). Logically then, this practice may have slow accruing benefits to an athlete’s competitive lifespan, and to exercisers over a lifetime of activity, possibly prolonging years of desired movement modalities and independence.47
Because exercise sensitizes muscles to hyper-aminoacidemia environment, the long-held practice by strength and physique/bodybuilding athletes of ingesting a fast acting protein (with or without fast acting carbohydrates) via liquid delivery system (i.e. powder mixes) before and immediately after exercise is now mainstream and commonly recommended to serious/competitive athletes36,37,45,50,66, and popularized by the everyday exerciser as a safe and effective means of maximizing and potentially prolonging exercise results.46,65,68,70,71,72,73,79,80,,, There is an exaggerated MPS response if and when exercise, and endogenously supplied AA converge -i.e., the so-called exercise-induced “Anabolic Window.”30,31,47,49,50,80,,
Figure 5 - Closing of the Proposed Exercise-Induced “Anabolic Window” (Source: Adapted from Ivy et al.50)

MPS and glycogen synthesis potential (channel activation, nutrient sensitivity, etc.) reach their highest respective points almost immediately post exercise, returning to baseline within 2-3hours, leading athletes to attempt to capture the peak activity by supplying quick acting protein/EAA to improve MPS outcomes as opposed to no feeding during this timeframe of an exaggerated MPS response when exercise & AA converge -i.e., the so-called “Anabolic Window.”
Earlier studies, based on AA MPS mechanisms of actions in the face of exercise described above, suggested that dosing protein pre and post exercise would help establish the EAA concentrations at necessary levels in the affected muscles, to not only deliver their molecular signals to trigger MPS at this opportune time when the body is most responsive, but also to reduce muscle protein breakdown (MPB).30,31,82, Supplementation of complete fast acting protein before and after exercise has demonstrated an incremental MPS benefit when everything else (diet, exercise and total protein) was equal. 43,49,50,, See Figure 6. Subsequent pre- and post-exercise protein or EAA supplementation (with or without carbohydrates) studies have duplicated these earlier results demonstrating improved MPS and recovery compared to no feeding in this “window,” hence this practice has become part of the total daily protein ingestion timing protocol recommendation.36,37,45,46,50,65,66,68,69,70,71,72,73,77,79,80
Figure 6 - Incremental Overall Nitrogen Retention (skeletal muscle) with Pre/Post Exercise Feedings
Source: Adapted from Devries,Error! Bookmark not defined. Philips,Error! Bookmark not defined. and PasiakosError! Bookmark not defined.

 
A: No net increase (nitrogen balance) in skeletal muscle (SM) as in young healthy (~20-30 yrs.) non-exercising adults, MPS=MPB.
B: Addition of exercise and normal diet with adequate protein but without immediate pre/post AA feeding, MPS≥MPB up to point.
C: Pre/post AA feedings (anabolic windows) in addition to normal diet and exercise may produce greater daily MPS signaling and activity (including through less MPB), which may be incremental to normal feedings
D: Caloric restriction and/or ageing lead to MPB>MPS, in which increased protein intakes and exercise can minimize or reverse up to a point based on deficit, age and/or training experience 

The two major opportunities that present themselves in this exercise induced "anabolic window" are 1) reducing excessive exercise induced muscle damage, and although MPB is necessary to stimulate exercise increases in MPS, too much MPB may be counterproductive since exercise protocols that induce hypertrophy show an eventual decrease in muscle damage, compared to the initial phase of exercise, while hypertrophy becomes measurable and continues to manifest, (to be sure, androgens/testosterone have anti-catabolic actions via inhibition of the actions of the catabolic hormone, cortisol, that leads to increases in MPS,). Therefore, during intense training, reducing MPB by a slight protein-induced simulation of insulin (insulin may primarily regulate muscle anabolism through its known inhibitory effects on MPB) and presenting EAA to the affected tissues before and during activity,31,80,, may more quickly and continuously support enhanced remodeling.62,71,80,, Further, Gieske et al. demonstrated that protein before exercise can increase rates of energy expenditure and fat oxidation compared to placebo or fasting before exercise, which may also contribute to the fitness end goals.46 2) MPS (and glycogen synthesis) potential is at its highest point (see Figure 5) immediately post exercise but this sensitivity also wanes quickly,31, ,, thus there is no harm and may be a benefit (as noted above), to an almost immediate delivery of a fast releasing protein/EAAs (carbohydrate as necessary) to potentially maximize the activated MPS machinery by creating a hyper aminoacidemia environment.43,49,50,80,85,95, Again, you have to consume a known amount of daily protein split throughout the day anyway, so it might as well include a pre and post exercise portion.
Post exercise ingestion would take place independently of whole foods in order to minimize normal EAA clearance by fthe splanchnic bed and perhaps more importantly, to avoid slower gastric emptying by accompanying foods since the goal is rapid hyper-aminoacidemia during this timeframe.68,80, , Timed ingestion of whey protein both pre- and post-workout92, ,,, facilitates a more rapid absorption of amino acids into the bloodstream and their subsequent delivery to the target tissues with less splanchnic extraction, when compared to other sources of proteins. ,,,6869, ,
In order to maximize muscle protein synthesis (MPS) within the so called “metabolic window” (see below for definition) both the pre and post workout supplement should contain a high quality protein (e.g. whey) dose of ~.18-.23 g/lb/LBM depending on age (older persons require more protein).,94 For example, a 200 lb exerciser (170 lb of LBM) would consume ~35 g of protein before and repeat exercise.
The remaining protein intake should be spaced evenly throughout the day ~3-4 hours apart with all meals containing equal divisions of remaining total protein (e.g. for the same 200 lb athlete/exerciser, 200 g/day allotment divided by five meals minus the ~70 g consumed pre and post exercise equals ~30 g of protein per meal on workout days and ~40 on non-workout days) including before bedtime if calories allow.2,3,12,31 Higher protein levels than shown here appear to have no detrimental effects and are often consumed by athletes based on preference, satiety, and the belief that more is needed to cover all MPS bases or simply based on the common attitude that it’s “better to be safe than sorry.” This is especially true since the only downside would be if the excess protein not used for MPS was taking the place of needed CHO to properly fuel activities and support the anabolic hormonal environment as described throughout this section. (The Practitioner is referred to the WheySmooth section in the PDSRG for complete details on protein recommendation, upper limits and safety.
Metabolic Windows and Timing of Protein and Carbohydrate Intake
Proper diet manipulations with specialized formulas create and take advantage of so called “metabolic windows” throughout the day where muscle cells become highly receptive to the nutrients necessary to maximize recovery,30,31,32,43-30,,, ,,, including replenishing glycogen stores1,4-8,41-25,50,111-39 and those used to increase protein synthesis specifically before and after training.28-20,41-26,48-30,54,92,103,,, ,,,, ,,,
Although muscle protein synthesis (MPS) and breakdown continues throughout the day for all humans, exercise presents an additional opportunity for greater overall MPS.30-21 A disproportional amount of this incremental MPS opportunity takes place within a two hour so called “metabolic window” starting immediately post activity, peaking within the first 30 minutes and returning to baseline at approximately two to three hours after activity (Figure 2).31,49,50,54, 94,95,96 

Figure 1- Muscle Protein Balance in Healthy Humans



Daily fluctuating rates of muscle protein synthesis (MPS) and muscle protein breakdown (MPB) in normal healthy sedentary humans up to age 30. Notice as protein is consumed there is an increase in rates of MPS and decrease in MPB resulting in net positive nitrogen balance (MPS > MPB, black areas). A few hours following protein intake, MPB increases and MPS decreases causing a net negative nitrogen balance (MPS < MPB, white areas). During energy balance the area under the curve (AUC) of positive and negative nitrogen balance are equal over the course of the day (MPS = MPB; AUC black = AUC white) thus maintaining muscle mass until age begins to favor MPB. Adapted from Devries et al. 69 




Figure 2 - Muscle Protein Synthesis Exercise-Induced Acute Incremental Potential Post Exercise


MPS and glycogen synthesis potential reach their respective highest points almost immediately post exercise and returning to baseline within 2-3 hours50,58,54  

This metabolic window is simply a convergence of the impact of both exercise and exogenous amino acids (MPS mechanisms, including a reduction in exercise-induced muscle breakdown, which in itself can allow a greater net synthesis.30,31,51,52 (For more details on how exercise and AA regulate MPS, breakdown and skeletal muscle balance the practitioner is referred to the AminoBoostXXL document in the PDSRG. In other words with all else being equal, exercise (especially unaccustomed) is an event that creates a short lived exaggerated MPS potential that when in the “immediate” presence of ingested AA, can increase MPS when compared to a feeding outside or later in the “metabolic window,” leading not only to the well established acute gain in MPS but potentially incremental to long-term gains.60,43,49,50,85,,,
Although protein and/or amino acid feedings alone (absence of CHO) increase MPS within the metabolic window, it appears that the addition of CHO to the pre/post formula elicits a greater positive response.28,43,49,50, Insulin is a powerful anabolic hormone that reduces muscle breakdown and allows the essential amino acid leucine to effectively function as the major trigger of MPS.49,, Of all the AA necessary for protein synthesis, leucine is considered the most important, and in fact has been indicated as the sole stimulator of MPS.49,95,129,, At a minimum, the processes of protein synthesis appears highly regulated by leucine.95,129-, Koopman et al.120 had eight untrained men randomly assigned to consume one of the three beverages: carbohydrates, carbohydrate and protein or carbohydrate, protein and free leucine following 45 minutes of resistance exercise. The results showed that whole body net protein balance was significantly greater in the carbohydrate, protein and leucine group compared to the other treatments, demonstrating leucine’s ability to augment protein synthesis.120 Similar results have since been duplicated by others.95,128,129,132  Leucine’s role in MPS is primarily via stimulation of the mammalian target of rapamaycin (mTOR) signaling pathway.95,, Leucine interacts with two mTOR regulatory proteins: mTOR raptor and rashomolog in the brain (or Rheb)., The proposed amount of leucine per dose to maximize MPS has been estimated to be between 2.5-4.0 grams (depending on size, age and activity) and referred to as the leucine threshold.30,84,132, ,,
Leucine cannot regulate protein synthesis effectively without the presence of insulin.49,128, This condition underscores the need for the pre and/or post training supplement to also contain a fast acting CHO source such as a maltodextrin to go beyond simply refilling energy stores and reducing muscle breakdown,30,31,49,51,52,, but to also favorably alter the overall hormonal environment to help maximize the anabolic net response.48-39,92,120,85, ,,,,,,
Studies Using Co-ingestion:
Cockburn et al. demonstrated that consuming milk-based CHO and protein after muscle-damaging exercise is beneficial in attenuating decreases in muscle performance and increases in active delayed onset muscle soreness (DOMS).113
Betts et al. reviewed the potential benefits of protein co-ingested with carbohydrate in prolonged exercise recovery and suggested that when CHO intake is low, the inclusion of protein may at least partially compensate for the limited availability of ingested carbohydrate. Additionally, it may increase the drive to exercise; blunt exercise-induced muscle damage; favorably alter metabolism during exercise, or a combination of any of these mechanisms.114
Saunders et al. found that plasma creatine kinase (CK) levels and muscle-soreness ratings increased significantly after the CHO compared to CHO and protein consumption. They also found that late-exercise time-trial performance was enhanced with CHO and protein ingestion compared with a beverage containing only CHO provided at maximal exogenous oxidation rates during exercise.   Although Cathcart et al. found no help with DOMS they did find that CHO and protein supplementation compared to CHO alone appears to prevent body mass loss, enhance thermoregulatory capacity and improve competitive exercise performance. 
Costa et al. found that ingestion of CHO and protein immediately after (but not 1 hour after) prolonged strenuous exercise prevented the decrease in neutrophil degranulation but did not alter circulating stress hormone, leukocyte trafficking, or S-IgA responses, thus suggesting positive effects on immune function.
Blacker et al. found the consumption of whey protein and carbohydrate supplements alone each resulted in faster recovery of the isometric force of the knee extensors compared to a placebo.
Highton et al. compared the effects of carbohydrate and carbohydrate-protein ingestion on self-regulated simulated multiple-sprint sport performance using the Shuttle Test involving 4 x 15 min blocks of regulated exercise followed by 2 x 15 min blocks of self-regulated exercise. Average running speed declined in the final 15 minutes of the CHO trial only, with protein providing a likely small improvement. The authors concluded “carbohydrate-protein ingestion is likely to enhance multiple-sprint sport exercise performance above carbohydrate, potentially through altered central fatigue or increased protein oxidation.”
As expected, Hiroyasu Mori et al. found that the post-exercise accumulation of muscle protein in trained resistance exercisers was low compared with that of the untrained men. But interestingly, when protein and carbohydrate were consumed immediately after resistance exercise, the effect of protein intake on muscle protein accumulation was high in the trained men, but showed no effect in the untrained men (compared to 6 hours after) suggesting that the “metabolic window “is more important to trained exercisers.
McLellan et al. in a systematic review on the use of CHO and protein supplements during and after endurance exercise found that when carbohydrate is delivered at optimal rates during or after activity, protein supplements appear to have no added endurance performance enhancing effect.
In a review by Cermak et al., they confirm that the availability of CHO during prolonged (>2 hours) moderate to high intensity exercise can significantly improve endurance performance. These athletes are advised to ingest CHO at a rate of 60 g/hr (well trained individuals can metabolize up to 90 g/hr) provided the CHO is in multiple fast oxidizing forms. To support rapid post exercise glycogen repletion during the acute recovery phase from exhaustive exercise, athletes are recommended to ingest 0.5-0.6 g/lb/hr of CHO. Interestingly, they found that CHO ingestion during shorter, (45-60 min, including intermittent/team sports), more intense (>75% peak oxygen uptake) training bouts also improved performance although endogenous stores were not the limiting factor. Therefore, the mechanism is proposed to reside in the central nervous system.7,156 For athletes with a lower gastrointestinal threshold for CHO ingestion and/or to support muscle protein synthesis immediate post exercise, it is recommended to use less CHO (.35 g/lb/hr of CHO) with protein (0.1-0.2 g/lb/hr) or approximately 2:1 CHO:P.7,156
In support of CHO and P co-ingestion post exercise to enhance the anabolic environment, Betts et al. showed that following 90 minutes of treadmill running, CHO and whey protein (~2:1) raised growth hormone levels and lowered cortisol compared to equal energy of CHO alone.
Data Summary
From all the above data it appears that a 2.0-2.5:1 ratio of CHO:P may be an appropriate average daily intake for most performance athletes to maximize MPS and glycogen replenishment. Additionally, this ratio contained in the supplement used during the pre and post exercise period (each protein dose being approximately .18-.23 g/lb of LBM109,94,,,) referred to as the metabolic window, may also be most beneficial. Based on the body composition goal, as long as the athlete can afford the calories without compromising total nutrition needs (e.g. higher protein intake necessary to support LBM during severe calorie restriction), the FS formula is ideal for maximizing MPS throughout the day while contributing to the adequate refilling of energy stores. During continuous caloric restriction for competitive physique athletes or others primarily seeking weight loss, WheySmooth or AminoBoostXXL will become the pre/post formula of choice due to lower carbohydrate and calorie content. “Long or ultra” endurance athletes with higher CHO needs and in-season (competition preparation) physique competitors or other weight conscious athletes with higher protein requirements may need to significantly alter this basic recommendation.
Protein in FirstString
The protein in FirstString is predominately whey concentrate. Compared to other proteins, whey protein has been shown to be superior in maximizing muscle protein synthesis (MPS), health and weight control outcomes based on its unique functional properties including: 1) higher essential amino acid (EAA) content (12.4 g/25 g); 2) higher BCAA (5.6 g/25 g ); 3) higher leucine (3 g/25 g); 4) faster digestion to timely amplify MPS during metabolic windows; 5) less splanchnic amino acid (AA) extraction so more AA are directly available for MPS; 6) whey concentrate (WC), along with the AAs, contains additional unique growth and health/immune factors(advantage whey69) (the practitioner is referred to the WheySmooth Section in the PDSRG for complete detailed referenced data for whey protein including mechanisms of action). Therefore, based on efficacy, FS uses an ion-exchange instantized protein blend containing  90% whey concentrate, 5% whey isolate (cold filtered) and 5% casein for immediate and extended release and easy mixing. There is 1.4 g of lactose per serving and therefore unless individuals have been diagnosed with “severe lactose intolerance,” which is extremely rare, this amount should have no adverse reaction. As a reference, most lactose mal-digesters (majority of people that consider themselves lactose intolerant) can consume 6-12 grams of lactose without major symptoms. As a reference, one cup of milk or yogurt has 12 and 9 g of lactose, respectively.
Carbohydrate – Maltodextrins
FirstString (FS) is primarily designed to be a fast acting ~2.2:1 CHO to protein supplement that can be altered as needed. The carbohydrate content in FS is strategically designed for, 1) proper calorie to protein ratio but also allows for adjustments (added foods/fluids into mix) as desired; 2) rapid gastric emptying thus oxidation during pre/post workout periods use to help maximize MPS and glycogen replenishment within the “metabolic windows”; 3) flavor and easy mixing properties.
Maltodextrin
Maltodextrin is a polysaccharide. It is a lightly hydrolyzed starch used as an ingredient in many food products as a thickener and carbohydrate source. Maltodextrin is easily digestible, being absorbed as rapidly as glucose but moderately sweet or sometimes bland making it desirable in food manufacturing.161 Carbohydrates (CHO) in sports are generally placed in two categories - CHO that can be oxidized (used for energy) rapidly (up to ~60 g/hr) and those which are oxidized slower (up to ~40 g/hr). Maltodextrins like glucose, maltose and sucrose fall in the rapid category.4 These carbohydrates are digested and absorbed at fast rates making them readily available to working muscle and also allow rapid amino acid absorption from co-ingested protein. These qualities, including maltodextrins food mixture compatibility, make maltodextrins ideal in a product like FS which is designed to deliver both timely protein and CHO to working muscles and help satisfy a proper daily CHO to protein ratio for performance athletes.4,161,162 
Dietary Fat Blend
The  dietary fats in FS made up of high oleic sunflower oil, medium chain triglyceride and safflower oil supply 11% of total calories in order to allow 1) rapid digestion of combined protein and CHO as too much dietary fat slows digestion; , 2) enhanced flavoring and mixing qualities of the product.
Co-factors Including Sweeteners
Co-factors in a protein/CHO powder are combined in minute amounts to deliver satisfying taste and texture, mixing ability, uniform nutrient distribution, proper ingredient flow and stability including during cooking or baking, and a practical product shelf life.
Sweeteners
Sweeteners used in FS appear at the end of the ingredient list as they are included in negligible amounts per serving and thus have no effects within the body other than taste. For more information on non-nutritive sweeteners, click here. Non-nutritive sweeteners (NNS) are those that sweeten with minimal or no carbohydrate or energy. NNS are regulated by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as food additives. The FDA approval process includes determination of probable intake, cumulative effect from all uses and toxicology studies. Seven NNS are approved for use in the United States with acesulfame K and sucralose being among the most popular. They have different functional properties for use in enhancing food products. All NNS approved for use in the United States are determined to be safe.165,,
Acesulfame Potassium (Ace-K)
Acesulfame potassium is approximately 200 times sweeter than sugar and is often combined with other sweeteners as an additional flavor enhancer in foods, and because it is heat stable (stays sweet even when used at high temperatures during baking). Ace-K is typically used in frozen desserts, candies, beverages, and baked goods. More than 90 studies support its safety and used in FirstString to support baking capacity and sweetness..
Sucralose
Sucralose is also a NNS, and is made from sucrose by a process that substitutes three chloride atoms for three hydroxyl groups on the sucrose molecule. Sucralose is 450–650 times sweeter than sucrose, possesses a pleasant sweet taste and a quality and time intensity profile that is similar to that of sucrose, making it a popular NNS. Sucralose has been extensively studied with more than 110 safety studies reviewed by FDA in approving the use of sucralose as a general purpose sweetener for food.165,169 A primary advantage of sucralose for consumers is its exceptional stability. It retains its sweetness over a wide range of temperature and storage conditions and in solutions over time. This stability allows manufactures to create better tasting foods and beverages and maintain the fresh flavor. Like Ace-K, sucralose is heat stable making it an ideal sugar substitute in baked goods.170,
Carboxymethyl Cellulose
Carboxymethyl cellulose (CMC) or cellulose gum is a cellulose (fiber) derivative. CMC is used in food as a viscosity modifier or thickener, and to stabilize emulsions (emulsifier) in food products. CMC is used extensively in gluten free and reduced fat food products such as FirstString. Use of CMC also ensures smooth dispersion in flavor, and improves texture and overall quality.172 
Xanthan Gum (XG)
 Xanthan gum is a water soluble, high molecular weight natural polysaccharide produced by fermentation process. Due to its soft texture, xanthan gum is widely used as a thickener or viscosifier in the food industry. XG also functions as a stabilizer for many different formulations with applications in pharmaceuticals, dietary supplements and food products such as FirstString.
FirstString & NSF Certification for Sport
NSF Certified for Sport
Although all dotFIT (dF) products are formulated and manufactured with the same rigor, FirstString along with a select group of other dF products undergo an additional test and 3rd party certification for another type of assurance. See http://www.dotfit.com/NSF_Certified_for_Sport for complete line of dotFIT NSF Certified for Sport (NSFCS) products. In addition to the dF standard of evidence-based programming, formulas, and 3rd party testing, the addition of the NSFCS process ensures collegiate and professional athletes that they are protected from unwarranted suspensions due to banned substances in supplements. Therefore, not only are the contents tested to match the label, the program includes a test for banned substances that can creep into products during the manufacturing process because of unprotected, non-segregated mixing rooms or worse, deliberate spiking of illegal ingredients. Collegiate, professional, other drug-tested athletes and their team management require this assurance in order to protect themselves from tainted products commonly found in commercially available dietary supplements in mass-market outlets.,,,,
About NSF
To meet the growing demands of athletes, coaches and all those concerned about safety and banned substances in sports supplements, NSF International created the NSF Certified for Sport® Program. The program's objective is to certify that participating sports supplement manufacturers have met NSF's stringent independent certification process guidelines, which were developed through a consensus process involving regulatory, sports industry and consumer groups. This program, which focuses primarily on the sports supplement manufacturing and sourcing process, provides key preventive measures to:
Protect against the adulteration of products
Verify label claims against product contents
Identify athletic banned substances in the finished product or ingredients
NSF developed and maintains the only accredited American National Standard to certify dietary supplements, NSF/ANSI Standard 173. NSF's history of independence led to a partnership with the National Football League (NFL) and the NFL Players Association (NFLPA) to develop and administer the NFL/NFLPA Supplement Certification Program, specifically for professional football but used across all sports.
The NSF Prohibited Substances List includes banned substances, identified by leading sports organizations, such as the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA), the NFL and Major League Baseball (MLB). The NSF Certified for Sport™ Program certifies products and inspects facilities for a range of substances. Click the link for more on NSF Certification program.  http://www.nsf.org/business/athletic_banned_substances/index.asp?program=AthleticBanSub
NCAA Bylaw 16.5.2.2
FirstString along with most dF nutrition bars also conform to the NCAA Bylaw 16.5.2.2 for collegiate athletes. The Bylaw simply states that if schools are going to provide a supplement containing protein for athletes, it must not contain more than 30% of the calories from protein. Click here for more details:
http://fs.ncaa.org/Docs/NCAANewsArchive/2000/division+i/interpretations%2B-%2B8-14-00.html 
FirstString Summary

FirstString is NSF Certified for Sport and complies with the NCAA Bylaw 16.5.2.2 related to the protein content of a supplement. FirstString’s (FS) macronutrient profile of approximately 60% CHO, 30% protein and 10% fat is in accordance with current scientific evidence and recommendations that supports maximizing muscle protein synthesis (MPS) and performance for the majority of athletes and especially those with the primary goal of increasing size, strength and speed. This formula has particular relevance for athletes of all ages involved in “intermittent sports” (e.g., team sports) where the actions are generally intermittent high-intensity movements while executing sport-specific skills over a prolonged period of time of 1-3 hours (e.g. football, basketball, soccer, rugby, hockey, lacrosse, baseball, etc.). Performance during intermittent sports is dependent upon a combination of anaerobic and aerobic energy systems that are powered primarily by carbohydrate, thus requiring a continuous intake of between 50-70% of total caloric intake (TCI). FirstString’s macronutrient profile is also ideal for the primarily anaerobic athlete, who is not restricting caloric intake, such as off-season bodybuilders, power lifters, sprinters, etc. and most mid-range endurance athletes. During prolonged dieting for aggressive weight and body fat goals, athletes would switch to WheySmooth and/or AminoBoostXXL. Long or ultra-endurance athletes who require higher CHO intake can add CHO to the FS mix as needed (e.g. CHO powders of choice, fruits, juices, etc.) or simply maintain daily desired macronutrient profile with daily foods when incorporating FS.
Whey proteins have proven to be superior to other protein sources in stimulating MPS and therefore FS uses an ion-exchange instantized protein blend containing  90% whey concentrate, 5% whey isolate (cold filtered) and 5% casein for immediate and extended release and easy mixing along with co-factors that give the product its desirable taste, texture and stability. The CHO source is predominately maltodextrins for fast acting fueling and refueling of muscles. The combination of FS fast acting CHO and protein sources make it ideal to timely amplify MPS during the so-called metabolic window. Finally, because of the macronutrient profile, FS is also designed to supplement the overall diet in a manner that can maximize long-term muscle gains by giving the user the ability to timely add protein and CHO in percentages that have been shown to be the most conducive in supporting a continuous anabolic environment. 
Typical Use
FirstString is for athletes of all ages including those who are drug tested and whose primary goals are maximizing growth and performance including muscle protein synthesis (MPS) and recovery from strenuous activity. 
As a pre-workout supplement, consume the amount below 30-40 minutes prior to activity based on body size:
100-150 lbs - 1.5 scoops
151-200 lbs - 2 scoops
200-250 - 3 scoops
Greater than 250 lbs - 4 scoops
Immediately following training, repeat the same dose unless also using AminoBoostXXL (see muscle stacking) at which time you would consume FS 30 minutes following the immediate AminoBoostXXL post exercise dose.
As a meal replacement or weight gain supplement, use as needed throughout the day to meet individual goals for protein, CHO, calorie and nutrient timing.
Anyone wanting a great tasting, convenient meal replacement and/or additional protein source.
Precautions
Older data suggested an increase in calcium loss with high protein intakes, which may predispose the individual to an increased risk of osteoporosis.However, more recent studies have found the link between protein intake and bone health to be positive, or no effect., The Institute of Medicine’s and other related studies have concluded that levels of dietary protein are not associated with a decrease in renal function with age.,, ,,,,,
Contraindications
FirstString is contraindicated in people who cannot consume milk proteins.
Adverse Reactions
There should be no adverse effects in healthy users at the recommended doses unless allergic to milk proteins.
Upper Limit/Toxicity
Currently there is no upper limit established for protein.193
Summary
Purpose
All athletes with primary goals of maximizing training induced muscle protein synthesis (MPS), replenishment of energy stores, recovery and acute and long-term performance and weight/body composition goals.
Fast acting whey protein and maltodextrins are used to timely amplify MPS during metabolic windows before and after exercise and throughout the day as necessary.
The base product CHO to protein ratio (~2:1) supports the maximum anabolic response making it ideal as a weight/muscle gain supplement.
Two (2) scoops provide 21 g of whey protein, 45 g of CHO, 150-200 mg of calcium, making up 290 quality calories
Ability to deliver the surplus of nutrients required to be incorporated into muscle tissue rather than body fat when appropriate resistance exercise or activity is included and total daily calories are appropriate.
Targeted to all athletes, and is particularly suited for youth, collegiate and professional athletes since it is NCAA approved and NSF Certified for Sport (NSFCS)
As a supplement, FirstString can help maximize a child’s athletic development including overall growth potential, activity preparation and recovery. A healthy and important addition to the diet of youth athletes as it supplies valuable dairy proteins and calcium, i.e. great tasting “delivery system” for often missed but sorely needed developmental nutrition.
Unique Features
CHO content satisfies the necessary profile for maximizing protein synthesis while fitting into a “low sugar” claim, which will appeal to prevailing perceptions
2 scoops: 21 g of protein, 45 g of CHO and only 3 grams of sugar
Sophisticated ideal blend of the highest quality fast and extended acting proteins
No aspartame and relatively low in sodium
Co-factors ensure nutrient uniformity and stability with great taste and easy mixing
No gas or bloating as is common with other protein powders
As with all dotFIT products, FirstString is designed in a synergistic relationship with all other dotFIT products and a person’s traditional food intake. dotFIT powders are NOT spiked with unnecessary nutrients. Most other products in this space (e.g. bars, shakes, ready-to-drinks, etc.) are heavily spiked with many nutrients that can lead to undesirable levels within the body when combining multiple manufacturers, products and normal food intake.
When consuming only dotFIT products as directed with one’s normal daily food intake, the recipient is assured of keeping the body at a safe and optimal nutrient level.
NCAA approved protein product and NSF Certified for Sport (NSFCS), which is an additional product guarantee for drug tested athletes. Click here for the dotFIT NSFCS section.
Formulated and manufactured for great taste and pleasing texture in a regularly inspected NSF certified facility, in compliance with Good Manufacturing Practices (GMPs) exclusively for dotFIT, LLC



 Nutrition Facts 






References
