See Ind Supp Folder for 2-program attachments

Hi [NAME],
Thanks for contacting us. The perfect supplement package for someone over 60years depends on budget and fitness level and goals. I believe you know that we take care of most high-profile CEOs, celebrities, including actors, athletes, etc., where they have no financial limitations. Therefore, I attached 2 health, longevity, and basic exercise recovery programs that you can scale to budget, as necessary. Further, depending on the 60year old client’s goal and fitness level, I might include the AminoFormula as their during exercise supplementation. Any further goal enhancing supplementation would be of course based on their immediate fitness goal, if is in fact beyond heath and daily recovery.
Included here: 
Attached: Baseline all goals document contains the “how to budget”   - i.e., prioritized by importance (see small print on the right side of the document.
Attached: Complete Health and Longevity document with the Alln1 SuperBlendTM replacing some health products using the exact same formulas (e.g., MVM, SuperiorAntioxidant, UltraProbiotic, DigestiveEnzymes) and of course the Alln1 SuperBlendTM contains much more as you will see. Be mindful, that your club (MUV NW) has not launched the Alln1 SuperBlendTM yet. But it is what we now give to our celebrity clients (unless for some reason they prefer the pills) because it also contains the much-needed fiber, prebiotics and many of the “feel good herbs” people are purchasing separately (e.g., ashwagandha, turmeric, mushroom blends).
Below is a sample note that would accompany the program we individualize for the client. Feel free to use it as necessary.
Reach back out if you have any other questions or need more information. Sometimes is better to get on a call.  

Sample Note:
To…..
Your program is what we give the world’s top CEOs, other celebrity clients and all those where money is not a concern, but structural and functional longevity is a must (we added creatine as discussed to also slow aging). This is home base for our world’s business and sport/fitness leaders, so we will keep your program updated as science evolves. Be mindful, all links in your program document are live and will take you to consumer brief information including short video descriptions. The deep peer-review individual product science including rationale, mechanisms of action, sub-population precautions, etc., is all contained in the Practitioner Dietary Supplement Reference Guide (PDSRG), which is used for practitioner certification and education only (i.e., not consumer facing but available to you and your agents, doctors, trainers, etc., as desired).
Although detailed here, we can get a call to walk through the program and answer any questions. 
