Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. The only products Kosher certified are the 3-new protein bars we just released (Fudge Graham, Double Chocolate Caramel & the Trail Mix). They are Kosher certified only because everything this bar manufacturer makes is Kosher certified. See below for more information on Kosher certifications.
Thanks again and have a great Day!
More Info
Question:
Are any dotFIT products certified Kosher?
Answer: 
Thanks for the question. Except for the 3 new protein nutrition bars we added, none of our products are certified kosher (we do not have a market for the expense), but that doesn’t mean they don’t follow the criteria.
All dotFIT products are 3rd party tested (and most NSF-CS) but do not go through the Kosher certification as it adds significant cost that would have to be passed to the customer. The vast majority of our customers do not require or request the Kosher certification and therefore it’s not a necessity at this time and helps save customers a little money. That said, if our market for Kosher increases to a threshold number, we’ll entertain having a few products certified. 
As a side note:
More Info    
The only reason we don't come out with everything the way everyone would want them produced (and there are many requests including Kosher Certification), would be because at this point in time within our sport/fitness practitioner product distribution channel, we don't have a large enough respective market to produce the individually requested product in the quantities necessary to be even slightly competitive with currently available specialty product lines (or flavors) that cater to unique markets. You must produce into the 100s of thousands at one time of each product to be price competitive as we do for all other products we sell. Doing this with a unique requested particular product, because our market for that specialty/niche product is small, most of the product would expire before we sold it, leaving a huge waste and lost revenues. This is especially true with specific product flavor extensions. Moreover our licensed facilities have limited room for inventories forcing them to carry only the most popular flavors/products.

From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Monday, February 27, 2023 8:24 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Contact Us


 
Name: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Phone: [PHONE]
Message: Are any of your products certified Kosher? I do not see any hexers.
 

