Question: Do you take all the supplements on lean 90 all together??
Hi [NAME],
Thanks for contacting us. You can take the supplements in the Lean Pack 90 as directed over the 90day period, meaning each supplement for 30days, or you can take them all together. See below for more information.
Thanks again and have a great day.
Q: Can I take all Lean Pack 90 products daily or individually over the 90days? 
A: You can use the products as they are designed for the kit, meaning using the Weight Loss and Liver Support the first 30days; CarbRepel the second 30days and end with ThermAccel for the last 30 days for a total of 90-days. Or you can use them simultaneously if you need extra assistance or have tight timeline to lose weight since they all work by different mechanisms. Simply use each one as directed daily.

Q: Do you recommend CR (or WLLS) and ThermAccel used together if I want to boost weight/fat loss? 
A: Yes, you can use CarbRepel with ThermAccel (TA), or any of the dotFIT weight loss products such as Weight Loss and Liver Support together, and it is commonly done with people needing extra help, as each product works to support appetite and metabolism through different and unique mechanisms. Simply follow the directions on each product label. The links will take you to a brief product description including short video.



 
Aurora,
Thanks for contacting us. Yes you can take Weight Loss and Liver Support and ThermAccel together. Just follow individual directions. See below for related FAQs.
Thanks again and have a great evening.
FAQ
Q: Do you recommend CR (or WLLS) and ThermAccel used together if I want to boost weight/fat loss? 
A: Yes, you can use CarbRepel with ThermAccel (TA), or any of the dotFIT weight loss products such as Weight Loss and Liver Support together, and it is commonly done with people needing extra help, as each product works to support appetite and metabolism through different and unique mechanisms. Simply follow the directions on each product label. The links will take you to a brief product description including short video


Hi [NAME],
Thanks for contacting us. You can take the 3-products anyway you like, such as over the 90days as the directions state, or you can take them all as needed each day as directed. See below for related FAQs.
Thanks again and have great week!

Q: Do you recommend CR (or WLLS) and ThermAccel used together if I want to boost weight/fat loss? 
A: Yes, you can use CarbRepel with ThermAccel (TA), or any of the dotFIT weight loss products such as Weight Loss and Liver Support together, and it is commonly done with people needing extra help, as each product works to support appetite and metabolism through different and unique mechanisms. Simply follow the directions on each product label. The links will take you to a brief product description including short video

Q: Can I take all Lean Pack 90 products daily or individually over the 90days? 
A: You can use the products as they are designed for the kit, meaning using the Weight Loss and Liver Support the first 30days; Carb Repel the second 30days and end with ThermAccel for the last 30 days for a total of 90-days. Or you can use them simultaneously if you need extra assistance or have tight timeline to lose weight since they all work by different mechanisms. Simply use each one as directed daily.

Q: A client asked me if she should still take CarbRepel before a meal if not eating carbs at that particular meal. Also, what if you forget to take it 30 minutes before a meal? Can you take it right before or should you wait till later? 
A: No, you would not use CR if not consuming carbs, or very little carbs such as only vegetables or a little fruit. Taking CR as it was used in the clinical trials is ideal (~30min before a carb containing meal), but it will still work if you take it at/before, or very close, to the meal.  

Q: A client asked me if she should still take WLLS in the morning if she's not going to eat breakfast. Also, what if you forget to take it 30 minutes before a meal? Can you take it right before or should you wait till later? 
A: The bottom line is that the Weight Loss & Liver Support should be consumed 3 times daily and separated as evenly as possible to help maintain the desired levels of ingredients. Taking it before a meal is one way of spreading it out and getting help in appetite support within 30min. But it’s not necessary once you start using the product regularly. 
And yes, have your client take it in the  morning even if not consuming breakfast.

More Info:
Original Lean Pack 90 purpose
Complete program for non-program users
Menus, exercise, supps & self-promoting with brand connection
Rationale for cycling
Marketing: psychological timeline, financially palatable and full commitment
Efficacy: 1)Liver support first when at heaviest; 2) different appetite support/targets to overcome adaptation; 3) most aggressive product (ThermAccel) at final phase as natural plateaus are more common
Current use
Same as above
May use as directed or all together
Use each product as needed: TA daily, WLLS daily, CR with higher CHO meals
Common, easy & complete product to sell at challenges

From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Tuesday, February 7, 2023 1:54 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Supplements
Question: Why does the Lean Pack instruct you to take the Liver support then CarbRepel then the Therm Acc? I would think the CarbRepel and ThemAccel could be taken together.
 

