Name: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Phone: [PHONE]
Message: I have been using the Lean MR Chocolate shake for a long time. The last batch tasted very different. Did they make some sort of change to the shake ingredients? I bought the pre and post workout chocolate shake to hold me over. Will both shakes do the same thing? My account is linked to [EMAIL].

Hi [NAME],

Thanks for contacting us. We had a LeanMR flavor enhancement a few months ago but no active ingredient formula change, so there should not be any alterations in consistency or results unless you are mixing it differently. That said, using natural ingredients always makes a minor change in appearance and taste based on harvest season differences. The latest lots of LeanMR are our best to date according to our focus groups and sales, but if for any reason you would like to exchange it or receive a refund, Berlinda is here to help. And yes, you can use the Pre/Post Workout and Meal Replacement  Formula (PPWMR) as a meal replacement as it is, or add ingredients to make it as you like. Visit our recipe section for great recipes. I also placed a helpful Q&A below for more information.
Thanks again and have a great Sunday – and reach out to Berlinda as needed.

Q: Right now I'm taking LeanMR, and I noticed you have a pre/post protein powder. Which one is better for a workout and lose weight? Thanks

A: The LeanMR is a specialized structured meal replacement (MR) that you would generally not use for a pre and post workout supplement because of the high fiber. The Pre/Post Workout and Meal Replacement  Formula (PPWMR) can be used both as a MR  and as your pre/post workout supplement (also see recipe section). Mindful that the great part of protein powders is that you can add desired extra nutrition to get the calories, fiber, and macros that you want. The LeanMR starting formula has 6gms of fiber while the PPWMR has virtually none, but you can add as desired, therefore it can be used for both purposes. If you choose to use the LeanMR for managing bodyfat/weight, then you would use the AminoFormula for your pre/post workout supplement. We also placed below a brief description of all dotFIT protein powders. Feel free to contact Berlinda (cc’d here) to talk to a live coach for more information.



From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Sunday, May 21, 2023 7:57 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Contact Us


 

 

