Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. In your situation it will all be about timing your allowed calories that induces weight loss (deficit) around your training. As an example: if your calorie needs are ~2000caloires/daily to lose ~1.5LBS/week (~750calories less than you burn) then you would have your largest meal (pre-training meal contain ~60% carbohydrate) ~2-3hours before your workouts, and use a pre-workout protein (with some carbs) shake ~30min before training and repeat this dose immediately after the workout. See below for a baseline dietary support plan with the meal times. Reach back out to one of our phone coaches for more information and on using the dotFIT program to make sure you reach your goal (Berlinda is cc’d here). The program is free and will give you a personalized program that will guide you to your goal.
The baseline supplement program below will feed your muscles while starving bodyfat, and also contains your pre & post workout protein supplement. After using the baseline supplement program below, and you want to take your fitness goals further, you can use our supplement screening tool to get the proper recommendations or reach out to one of our phone coaches for more information or questions.
Using the Free dotFIT Program: All your fitness needs including menu plans and achieving your body composition goal is contained in the dotFIT program (if you have a trainer, you can both use it). Go to the dotFIT home page and log in (using the icon in far upper right corner) and you will come to this page: http://www.dotfit.com/new-user-register (You may just click this link for now). From there simply follow instructions creating your program and setting your goal. Once you enter your personal statistics and goal, you’ll have all you need including diet. Every week when you update your measurements/weight or bodyfat, the program will automatically tell you what to do to stay on goal.
Thanks again and have a great day!


 Baseline Health, Recovery, Weight Control and Performance Supplement Program
Click on product links for a brief product description including short video
Daily:
dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender. If 50yrs or older use Over50 unless noted below; if female under 50 use Women’s; Males and very active females (competitive training protocols) under 50 use 2-Active, with both genders continuing use till 65yrs if still training competitively at which time every person will use Over50; children under 12yr use Kids; children 12-17yr use 1-Active). Adult Vegans use VeganMV
Take as directed with meals
WheySmooth or other favorite dotFIT protein mix (based on caloric allotment for goal)
Use as directed to make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of LBM (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 3-5 times daily
Can be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired supporting contents) to shore up total daily protein needs
As needed:
Super Calcium (read all food labels for calcium content including dotFIT protein shakes)*
Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food/shake intake
Females take 1 or 2 daily with meals; if you need to take 2, take one with AM meal and the 2nd with PM meal; Males take 1 only if necessary
Super Omega 3 
Take 1-2 daily with meal if not consuming 8-16oz/wk fatty fish (take 1 if >8oz/wk but <16; 2 if ≤8oz); not necessary if consuming ≥16oz/wk unless for athletic recovery purposes, then increase as directed
*All food labels including Protein Powders must contain calcium levels by serving so always check
Workout Days:
WheySmooth or other favorite dotFIT protein mix
Take 1scoop ~30-40 minutes before workout
Take 1-scoop immediately following workout   


From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Tuesday, February 7, 2023 5:23 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Nutrition
Question: I’m prepping to run a 10k in May. I’m 10 lbs over my target weight and am having problems losing the weight and still fueling. Any suggestions? Thanks 
 

