Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. we have Gluten free menus on the site that you can customize to be 40/30/30. Additionally, the dotFIT program has all you need to get sample menus containing the proper calories for your body composition, weight, and total fitness goals. Once you create your program (less than 7minutes), you can personally customize as many menus as you like and save them. I’m also connecting you with Berlinda to help you get started and answer any other questions you may have. Below are some related FAQs with more information.
Thanks again and have a great day!

More Info
Using the dotFIT Program (mindful the program is free): All your fitness needs including menu plans and achieving your body composition goal is contained in the dotFIT program (if you have a trainer, you can both use it). Go to the dotFIT home page and log in (using the icon in far upper right corner) and you will come to this page: http://www.dotfit.com/new-user-register (You may just click this link for now). From there simply follow instructions creating your program and setting your goal. Once you enter your personal statistics and goal, you’ll have all you need including diet with menus you can customize and save. Every week when you update your measurements/weight or bodyfat, the program will automatically tell you what to do to stay on goal.  

FAQs and tutorial links 
Q: Do the menus ever change?
A: The Reference menus written by our dieticians for each caloric goal does not change until the user changes it as they desire. They are all designed to be individually customized since everyone eats different. However, they can save all their customized foods and menus to use anytime they like. Below are 2 FAQs you may fine helpful. Here is a link to logging food and menu customization food logging tutorial.

Q: Is there a way to get new reference menus each week for my clients or are they always going to be the same?
A: Reference menus will remain the same (we continue to add new ones or replace them overtime) as they must be signed off on by our dieticians because that allows you to use the program in your scope of practice. And everyone is always going to change something to their liking, which is why they are 100% customizable, simple to execute and can be saved. The reference menus are accurately designed for macronutrient structures, health, calories, etc., matched to the clients goals. Alterations should only be done by you and the person consuming the foods. Here is the link for a complete program tutorial that will take you through all aspects of using the dotFIT program including menu creation and customization. Additionally, your client can enter any custom food they like, or any food not in the database. We also have complete tutorials on how to enter “custom foods”. Here is a link to the food logging tutorial with the part entering a custom food/drink) starting at ~1min and 30seconds into the video.
Menus in the program and ungated menus for the public.
The menus in the dotFIT program can all be customized and saved for individual clients and therefore the reference menus are simply static examples. The ungated menus on the site (click here) for anyone to view are simply examples to the public. But again, once you are in the program, all menus can be changed as desired and kept accurate for the goal. See below for related FAQs and reach back out for a live tour for more info, especially if you are one of our certified trainers.

Below are the sample menus in the dotFIT program with each having all different calorie targets based on your input/goal and can all be customized as desired.




From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Monday, August 14, 2023 5:27 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Contact Us


 
Name: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Phone: [PHONE]
Message: I am a meal planner but don't see where on our site we can see a full week of menus. I am also gluten sensitive so I am trying to possibly combine 40/30/30 and the gluten free
 

