Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us again. We have sent many programs to build muscle while losing bodyfat including free access to the dotFIT program. Maybe you have misplaced them. So here they are again. If you have more questions, please contact Berlinda (cc’d here) for more information.
Thanks again and have a great weekend.

From 4-8-23
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Weight Loss
Question: I'm trying to lose weight and gain lean muscle for over 50 individuals

Hi [NAME],
Thanks for contacting us. The dotFIT program is designed to do all you are requesting including assembling the individualized supplement program. I’m guessing you are part of the dotFIT Elite or a licensed club, so you have full access to the complete program for free. You can also use the supplement screener on the dotFIT homepage (or click the link here) to get the proper supplementation for the person and goal.  And lastly, I placed a dietary support bodyfat reduction bundle, that is the most common recommendation by health professionals, for the goals you mention including building or maintaining lean body mass (LBM). Reach out to Berlinda if you have any questions regarding your access to all these tools.
Thanks again and have a great weekend.

Stimulating Weight/fat Loss Bundle for Fast Results & Daily Recovery with Meal Replacement/Substitute Integration Program
Click on product links for a brief product description including short video
Daily:
dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender If 50yrs or older use Over50 unless 100% vegan, then use VeganMV 
Take as directed with meals
ThermAccel (TA)
Take 1-2 tabs in the morning, and 1-2 in afternoon at least 5-hours before bed; do not mix with other stimulants
Discontinue when goal is achieved
LeanMR (protein and fiber rich meal replacement formula) 
Use as directed within daily meal planning (see below) and to make sure you get ~1 gram of protein per pound of lean body mass (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources divided 4-5 times daily depending on preference
Can also be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired ingredients) to shore up total daily protein needs
Meal Replacement/Substitute Integration 
You may also click here for a simple ready to go solution including sample menus with proper calories, foods and LeanMR meal replacement diet integration
Weight Loss Phase:
Meal Replacements (MRs) generally supply two small meals a day and allow freedom of choice from traditional foods for the remaining allotted foods/calories. Therefore, use as two small meals within any calorie restricted meal plan of 4-5 meals since frequent meals are often better for bodyfat/weight reduction than fewer larger ones especially as it relates to satiety, preservation of lean body mass (LBM) and energy levels. LeanMR recipes are available here
Maintenance Phase 
Continue to consume 4-5 small meals daily within caloric allotment that includes 2 MRs for convenience and to help ensure overall diet quality while reducing food costs. A wide variety of healthy recipes including meal replacement recipes are available here

From 6-4-23
Hi [NAME]
Thanks for contacting us. It’s not a specific protein necessarily, it’s how much of a complete protein, such whey, that is most important when trying to do both, lose bodyfat and gain lean body mass (LBM). Therefore, make sure you have your calories correct (slight deficit), exercise, and use WheySmooth as your protein source (highest protein with lowest calories).
Your daily protein goal is to consume ~1gm/pound of LBM (or body weight if not too overweight) of good quality proteins split between daily meals and your pre and post workout shakes. See below for a complete baseline dietary support program that includes your daily protein needs that we recommend for all exercisers seeking the goal you named (lose bodyfat and gain LBM) and to accelerate results while maximizing health to stay active throughout life. After using this baseline supplement program, and you want to take your fitness goals further, you can use our supplement screening tool to get the proper recommendations. 
Thanks again and have a great day!


General Health, Recovery, Weight Control/bodyfat Reduction/Toning and Performance Supplement Program
Click on product links for a brief product description including short video
Daily:
dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender. If 50yrs or older use Over50 unless noted below; if female under 50 use Women’s; Males and very active females (competitive training protocols) under 50 use 2-Active, with both genders continuing use till 65yrs if still training competitively at which time every person will use Over50; children under 12yr use Kids; children 12-17yr use 1-Active). Pure Vegans, use VeganMV
Take as directed with meals
WheySmooth or other favorite dotFIT protein mix (based on caloric allotment for goal)
Use as directed to make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of LBM (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 3-5 times daily
Can be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired supporting contents) to shore up total daily protein needs
As needed:
Super Calcium (read all food labels for calcium content including dotFIT protein shakes)*
Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food/shake intake
Females take 1 or 2 daily with meals; if you need to take 2, take one with AM meal and the 2nd with PM meal; Males take 1 only if necessary
Super Omega 3 
Take 1-2 daily with meal if not consuming 8-16oz/wk fatty fish (take 1 if >8oz/wk but <16; 2 if ≤8oz); not necessary if consuming ≥16oz/wk unless for athletic recovery purposes, then increase as directed
*All food labels including Protein Powders must contain calcium levels by serving so always check
Workout Days:
WheySmooth or other favorite dotFIT protein mix
Take 1scoop ~30-40 minutes before workout
Take 1-scoop immediately following workout
From 4-27-23

Hi [NAME],
Thanks for contacting us. The LeanMR is a specialized structured meal replacement (MR) that you would generally not use for a pre and post workout supplement because of the high fiber. The Pre/Post Workout and Meal Replacement  Formula (PPWMR) can be used both as a MR  and as your pre/post workout supplement. Mindful that the great part of protein powders is that you can add desired extra nutrition to get the calories, fiber, and macros that you want. The LeanMR starting formula has 6gms of fiber while the PPWMR has virtually none, but you can add as desired, therefore it can be used for both purposes. If you choose to use the LeanMR for managing bodyfat/weight, then you would use the AminoFormula for your pre/post workout supplement (see below). We also placed below a brief description of all dotFIT protein powders. Feel free to contact Berlinda (cc’d here) to talk to a live coach for more information.
Thanks again and have a great day.
Control/Lose Bodyfat, Build/Support Muscle & Health Supplement Program – Level 2
Click on links for brief product descriptions including short video
Daily:
dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender. If 50yrs or older use Over50 unless noted below; if female under 50 use Women’s; Males and very active females (competitive training protocols) under 50 use 2-Active, with both genders continuing use till 65yrs if still training competitively at which time every person will use Over50; children under 12yr use Kids; children 12-17yr use 1-Active);’ pure vegans use VeganMV
Take as directed with meals
LeanMR other favorite dotFIT protein mix
Use as directed within daily meal planning (see below) and to make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of lean body mass (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources divided 4-5 times daily
Can also be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired supporting contents) to shore up total daily protein needs
As needed
SuperOmega 3 
Take 1-2 daily with meal if not consuming 8-16oz/wk fatty fish (take 1 if >8oz/wk but <16; 2 if ≤8oz); not necessary if consuming ≥16oz/wk unless for athletic recovery purposes, then increase as directed
Workout days
AminoFormula (AF) 
Take 1--scoop ~5-10min before and may continue to drink during workout to ~ midpoint
Take 1 scoop immediately following workout
Meal Replacement Integration 
Weight loss phase:
Meal Replacements (MRs) will supply two small meals a day and allow freedom of choice from traditional foods for the remaining allotted foods/calories. Therefore, use as two small meals within any calorie restricted meal plan of 4-5 meals. See sample plans here  and adjust as needed. 
Get LeanMR recipes here 
Maintenance phase 
Continue to consume 4-5 small meals daily within caloric allotment that include 1-2 MRs for convenience and to economically help ensure overall diet quality
You can go to our recipe section on the dotFIT website to get recipes with meal preparation instructions including meal replacement recipes.
Using dotFIT program: go to the dotFIT home page and log in (using the icon in far upper right corner) and you will come to this page: http://www.dotfit.com/new-user-register (click this link for now). From there follow instructions creating your program and setting your goal. Once you enter your personal statistics and goal, you’ll have all you need including diet. Every week when you update your measurements/weight or bodyfat, the program will automatically tell you what to do to stay on goal. Get more  menu examples here


From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Friday, October 13, 2023 8:09 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Nutrition
Question: I need to lose weight but I would like to gain muscle
 

