Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. All our products are 3rd party tested (click here for all facilities and testing) and manufactured in NSF certified facilities. The majority are also NSF-CS because they are the ones that require that additional specialized certification, such as our college, pro and Olympic teams we support. See below for more information.
Thanks again and have a great week!

More info
All our products are 3rd party tested after completion, and most also go through the NSF Certified for Sport (NSFCS) process, which is a significant extra cost per lot (and a test that goes beyond the standard NSF certification testing). Therefore, products that are not in high demand, such as some of the fat loss products or Recover & Build, by our pro and college teams and other organization that require NSF-CS (drug tested athletes), we don’t send it through NSF-CS process so we can keep these products affordable for everyone. Again, All products are 3rd party tested, manufactured in NSF certified facilities and go through the same manufacturing vigor and processes, so the only reason for an extra NSF-CS (4th party if you will) is for the customers that require it. All our NSF-CS products are found here https://www.dotfit.com/NSF_Certified_for_Sport including a short video you should watch. I also placed more information below.
dotFIT Difference - Sports (3:23); dotFIT Difference – all consumers (6min)

More Info
All our products are 3rd party tested and the majority have the additional (4th party if you will) NSF-CS test since that’s the only outside testing agency that most pro and most college sports accept. Because the dotFIT products are Practitioner Products, they all have to meet that standard including 3rd party testing. Here is that info in case you’re interested Product Manufacturers & 3rd Party Testing and more below on Practitioner Products.
dotFIT Difference
Effective Formulas 
Proper amounts and safety are based on the current scientific literature by the research team
Full transparency - research reviews available online in the PDSRG
Independent Testing
All products are 3rd party tested (not mandatory by law)
Performance products are tested for banned substances and are NSF Certified for Sport
Product Synergy
Formulas complement each other to prevent excessive intakes
Education
Fitness Professionals are educated with a Certification Course approved by NASM, AFAA, NFPT and for Registered Dietitians
Proper Screening
Software provides a tailored nutrition and supplement plan which removes products contraindicated for medical conditions
Exclusivity
Products are part of a complete fitness solution with guidance from a Coach -  and NOT available on the mass market
Takeaway-- You need both: 1) documentation that doses/forms match positive clinical trials found in (PDSRG) i.e.,  submitted documentation;  and 2) 3rd party testing to make sure its in the product at that dosage (Ref)
From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Monday, February 27, 2023 12:42 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Contact Us


 
Name: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Phone: [PHONE]
Message: Hello, Are all of your products NSF certified? Or only the ones designated NSF certified for Sport? Thank you, Mark
 

