From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Wednesday, November 22, 2023 10:07 PM
To: [NAME] <[EMAIL]>
Subject: RE: An awareness and a question

Thank you, Neal. 
I have been on the seminars and have often asked questions. 
I don't question offering the complete package, meaning fitness and nutrition. Talking to ACE they did tell me that recommending specific products is out of the scope of practice. 

As you clarified, you have nothing to do with our gym's policy. I guess a gym can decide their own model. The model where I work seems punitive and that's my issue. 

Enjoy your Thanksgiving and, as always, thank you for the time and energy you've taken to respond to this email and previous ones. 

Thanks again for your input. But be mindful, as we cover in our seminars, that the purpose of the dotFIT certification is to put nutrition, including recommending Practitioner products, into your scope practice, which is why businesses onboard their staff with the certification. The certification is written and approved by dietician, therefore approved for non-clinical use by certified students. ACE would be correct if you were solely certified by ACE since recommending dietary support based on people’s needs is not covered by them. At the end of the day, 85% of members of health clubs (80% of Americans) are purchasing dietary supplements blindly somewhere else (~500/yr). Our jobs include helping them get products that are safe and effective (Practitioner 3rd party tested products only) and targeted to their fitness goals so they can continue to remain active, in the gyms, and healthy. 
Thanks again and appreciate your participation.



Best, 
Satya

Hi [NAME],,
First of all, dotFIT has nothing to do with how clubs pay their trainers. That would be absurd. Every organization has their own pay packages for staff. Incentives are built on what the ownership wants to sell in order to increase retention and referrals. The organizations that include nutrition sales in the incentive packages believe that it makes their services better, and left to their own design, trainers historically will take the path of least resistance (not learn something new and have a conversation about it – mindful a qualified trainer does not have to “sell” -they solve problems). Therefore, management builds pay packages that award trainers/staff to deliver complete fitness and not just become exercise instructors. The only way management would know if you were learning and applying your complete package, would be to monitor sales, just like any business. It’s called “running the company play” – as any business would require.
The most successful personal training programs in the nation, include nutrition and supplementation because their trainers build a lifetime solution for their clients. A true fitness professional should learn how to package and deliver nutrition/supplementation if this is the ownerships model. Otherwise, they should find employment where they can be solely an exercise instructor and not a complete health/fitness professional. And there are plenty of organizations that are absolutely fine with this. We can help them find that type of employment anytime. Just have them reach out to us and we can connect them with an employment of choice.
As far as the Alln1 SuperBlendTM, the only reason you don’t get a 40% discount is because we have very little margin in the product as I’m sure you guessed by understanding the ingredients – and certainly when you compare it to competitive “green-type” products. If we gave you 40% off, we would lose money after shipping. We are very happy you are enjoying it, and it will only get better the longer you use it. It should be very simple for you (or anyone) to get on-going sales of this incredible product to easily surpass whatever number your business has set – especially because it is a subscription/recurring model. If your supplement number is $200/m, that’s about 2-sales/m of Alln1 SuperBlendTM. Most engaged trainers are doing that in less than 1-week. Remember, that subscription is tied to you indefinitely. We have individual trainers that have 100 subscriptions each month.   

In summary, we have nothing to do with how businesses pay their employees and the Alln1 SuperBlendTM has low margins so discounts are not as deep – but the product should be the easiest nutrition solution you ever had to offer to people that want to Feel, Look, Move, Play and Live Better Longer.
I hope this helps, and let us know if you need more help with anything. Hopefully, you are on all our seminars, so you are expanding your education and career.
Thanks, and have a great Thanksgiving!  



 
Neal Spruce
CEO
Office. [PHONE]
Fax.     [PHONE]

From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Wednesday, November 22, 2023 3:20 PM
To: [NAME] <[EMAIL]>
Subject: An awareness and a quesiton

Hi [NAME],

I hope this finds you well and you enjoy Thanksgiving with your family tomorrow.

I've been personal training for 28-years, teaching yoga for 17 1/2 years. I have been working at Crunch in Hoboken for 5-years. In the past they tied our commissions to Dotfit, where if you didn't sell $200 worth of products in the month, you would not receive your personal training sales commissions. I think eventually they lost trainers and so they changed this policy. 

Currently, the new policy is if we don't sell $200 in products that we will receive a write-up and three write-ups and you're fired. While they haven't been active on the write-ups, that is the policy we were told stands. A lot of the Dotfit sales are actually from personal trainers buying the products at retail because of this. While we are told that we are full-service personal trainers and the supplementation is part of the program, there are clients that don't want to buy any products, due to their ignorance or personal philosophy. I believe our job is to present the information in the best way possible but we can't make a horse drink the supplements, so to speak.

I'm guessing there is an arrangement you have where in order to carry the Dotfit products they have to commit to selling a certain amount of product each month. Either that or Crunch decided they want a certain amount of profit from Dotfit sales and, just like what happens when the government taxes the telecommunications industry, they passed the taxes onto the underlings. 

While I buy some Dotfit products because I want to, I think the idea of us as a gym hitting our Dotfit numbers because many trainers have to buy the products themselves at retail is a little off and I was wondering if you have an arrangement with Crunch that has dictated this policy?

Second question, is regarding the AllNOne, which I like and have been using. How come that product doesn't seem eligible for the 40% discount?

Thank you always for your time and consideration.

Sincerely,
Satya

