Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. All the ingredients in the dotFIT products have been through clinical trials to establish safety and efficacy or they would not be used. Further, the products are used by millions of people daily and have been for many years. Mindful, the products are Practitioner products, meaning they are used through practitioners (see below for more info that sent to inquiring business practitioners). We have all the latest research on all products and ingredients in the Practitioner Dietary Supplement Reference Guide (PDSRG), which all certified dotFIT Fitness Professionals have access to through the trainer console. The document is used for training and certification purposes only and therefore not consumer facing since it is all peer review science. If you are a certified practitioner, you have access to all the peer review documentation on each product and ingredients. I’m connecting you with Berlinda here to help guide you in the proper direction so stay tuned. Finally, whichever supplements you use for people with medical conditions, make sure you clear it with their attending physician.
Thanks again  and have a great weekend.

More Info

3rd Party Tested & NSF Certified for Sport Dietary Supplements
dotFIT is Evidence Based* 24/7 Support with Practitioner Products Only
dotFIT Worldwide is R&D company that delivers holistic evidence-based programming, products and support to over 1500 Sport/Fitness & Health Facilities, and over 40,000 sport & fitness professionals
 
#1 Recommended and Used Dietary Supplements in the Sport & Fitness Channels including college and professional sports
If you are looking for health, performance and fitness support with Practitioner Products only (not found in consumer channels and sold through professionals) and want full product disclosure (rationale for use, mechanisms of action, safety, contraindications, etc.) you can click the link to the dotFIT Practitioner's Dietary Supplement Reference Guide (PDSRG) that is used by all our sport, fitness and health professionals and published by our Scientific Advisory Board and R&D team. The first section describes everything around criteria, recommendation, testing and manufacturing processes. All products are 3rd party tested and specific dotFIT health and performance products are also NSF Certified for Sport (NSFCS). Peer review quality documents for individual products are found in their respective categories. dotFIT is a research and development company for sport, fitness and health professionals, therefore, all programs/products must pass our Evidence-Based Advisory and Legal Committee Rules including 3rd party testing procedures such as Health Canada, NSF and mandatory audited GMPs. Individual products can be found in respective sections. PDSRG (used for formulation safety and efficacy rationale, certification and education purposes, not consumer facing and located in the certified practitioner console).
*Evidence based: sport and fitness/weight control solutions (or clinical decisions) that represent the best available evidence and supported by the consensus of their respective scientific community

Practitioner Product Status by Rules
Efficacy – dosages & forms match clinical trials (peer review documents published in PDSRG)
Safety – shown in trials and history, screening & ingredient synergy
Purity & Potency – tested from start to finish
Nutrient Delivery – right place, right time
Truth in labeling – legal facts based on #1 & prove it with 3rd party testing
Practitioner delivered – Personalized Practitioner Delivery (legitimizes the recommendation): synergistic solution based on body statistics, sport, goals, experience, medical history & progress
Remove the doubt with the Practitioner resource
Click here Sports (3:23); all consumers (6min)
Takeaway
You need both: 1) documentation that doses/forms match positive clinical trials found in the practitioner dietary supplement reference guide (PDSRG) i.e.,  submitted documentation
 and 2) 3rd party testing to make sure its in the product at that dosage (Ref)
From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Friday, April 14, 2023 6:46 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Contact Us


 
Name: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Phone: [PHONE]
Message: Hello, Are any of these supplements tested in clinical populations? Specifically, those with endocrine disorders/diagnoses, including overweight and obesity? If so, can you please provide references? Thank you, Krissi 
 

