Hi [CUSTOMER],
There is no potassium in any of the products you are using that you listed. And you have a correct amount of magnesium in the Active/Over50 and Calcium supplement combined, because as you know, all our supplements are synergistically designed so that when taking multiple products, you do not exceed the Tolerable Upper limits (UL) amounts when product contain the same ingredients.
Hope this helps buddy and keep me updated. (I added some extra info below regarding dotFIT synergy for your doctor in necessary).

More Information
From to Health Products section in the Practitioner Dietary Supplement Reference Guide (PDSRG):
The following dietary supplements in this section are strategically formulated with compounds, already found in the body but in limited amounts due to the aforementioned obstacles, to help achieve levels associated with improved health, recovery, physical and cognitive functional performance and longevity throughout life-stages compared to no supplementation. Additionally, all products assume the use of a daily dotFIT multivitamin and mineral (MVM) so that regardless of the additional recommended product(s), the users will remain in the known safe and recommended ranges of safety and efficacy when all nutrients and bio-actives are combined including typical diets. Moreover, any product used as a standalone will function as claimed or used synergistically with other recommended dotFIT products to potentially further enhance desired health and fitness outcomes, such as combining the dotFIT MVM with SuperCalcium+ and the SuperOmega-3 when the diet is insufficient in the recommended amounts of calcium (RDA) or Omega-3 fish oils (World Health Organization [WHO]). 
All three levels of the dotFIT Health and Longevity Supplement Program found in the Appendix, are perfect examples of nutrient/bio-active synergy. 
Health and Functional Longevity Dietary Supplements Found in Their Respective Sections:
SuperOmega-3 Fish Oils
UltraProbiotic
SuperiorAntioxidant
JointFlexPlus
AdvancedBrainHealth
DigestiveEnzymes
From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Wednesday, May 31, 2023 11:50 AM
To: [NAME] <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Question

Hello my friend! Hope everything is great with you! I have a question for you. I have had some small issues with my heart, palpitations, and skipping beats. Nothing too serious. However, my doctor asked me if I am taking an excessive amount of potassium or magnesium. So even though I can see on the bottles of vitamins that I am taking, I wanted to get your opinion because I know you are the best. So here is what I take every day and night.

1) Mornings
   1 Omega
   1`D
   1 Super Ant
   1 Active MV
   1 Ultra Pro
   2 Joint
   1 Calcium
   4 Advanced Brain

2) After Dinner
   1 50 MV
   1 D
   2 Joint
   4 Advanced Brain

 Thanks Neal:)



ATTITUDE IS EVERYTHING!
               Steve

