Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. All products have complete nutrition and/or supplement facts information on the website including brief product descriptions with short videos. Simply go to dotFIT.com, click store, then select your product category such as Nutrition, then select your product such as LeanMR (the whey protein isolate), BestPlantProtein, etc. Below is the ingredient/label information your requested for LeanMR. But again, all the answers to product questions are in the store.
If you are a certified Practitioner you have access to all the latest research on all products and ingredients in the Practitioner Dietary Supplement Reference Guide (PDSRG), which is located for all dotFIT certified Practitioners through their trainer console. The document is used for training and certification purposes only and therefore not consumer facing since it is all peer review science.
Thanks again and have a great day!

Phone: [PHONE]
Message: What are the ingredients in your AminoFormula? I can't find it on the product page. Thanks!

Hi [NAME],
Thanks for contacting us. All products have complete nutrition/ingredients and/or supplement facts information on the website including brief product descriptions with short videos. Simply go to dotFIT.com, click store, then select your product category such as Performance, then select your product such as AninoFormula and all the information will be there.  Below is the ingredient/label information your requested for AminoFormula. But again, all the answers to product questions are in the store.
If you are a certified Practitioner you have access to all the latest research on all products and ingredients in the Practitioner Dietary Supplement Reference Guide (PDSRG), which is located for all dotFIT certified Practitioners through their trainer console. The document is used for training and certification purposes only and therefore not consumer facing since it is all peer review science.
Thanks again and have a great day!




 
From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Saturday, September 2, 2023 2:37 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Supplements
Question: Where can I get more information on the way protein, isolate, calories, how many scoops, etc.
 

