Question: What percent of whey concentrate compared to whey isolate makes up the Whey Smooth protein? For a client who is lactose intolerant and is concerned with the whey protein upsetting their stomach?
Hi [NAME],
Thanks for contacting us. First, there is no lactose in any of our proteins as it is removed during the ultrafiltration process. They WheySmooth protein is 90% whey concentrate 5% casein and 5% isolate (same as the protein in the Pre/Post and FirstString powders). The LeanMR is 100% whey isolate. See below for more on whey concentrate and isolate. Also remember that the BestPlantProtein is a non-dairy 100% vegan protein if someone has a preference or an unusual dairy protein allergy.
Thanks again and have great 4th!
More Info, Including FAQs

Q: Which protein would I choose between a whey concentrate or a whey isolate? 
A: A properly filtered whey concentrate, such as the dotFIT whey protein powders, should always be a person’s first choice if they want the benefits beyond just the amino acids (e.g., natural occurring health and growth globulins). Isolates are good for people with true unusual dairy protein allergies. Therefore, a good whey concentrate may yield greater overall long-term results for the majority of users.
See below for more information and an FAQ. The dotFIT specialized LeanMR powder uses a whey isolate for those with allergies or have a genetic problem with cholesterol. The LeanMR is a complete meal replacement based on the specialized carbohydrates and fats. 

We do not plan to make a pure whey isolate (other than the LeanMR) because we do not have a large market for the product since whey concentrate is preferred by our athletes and fitness enthusiast because a properly filtered whey concentrate contains exactly the same amino acid profile but also contains health and growth factors that an isolate strips out. Further, our concentrate goes through a complicated filtration process to take out everything we do NOT want such as lactose. That’s the difference between a good whey concentrate and an inexpensive one – the filtration process we require to save all the good natural stuff gives more overall long-term benefits. I placed an FAQ below from a practitioner that can give you more information including a link to the Whey Protein section in the Practitioner Dietary Supplement Reference Guide (PDSRG).

Q: I noticed you use a Whey concentrate; how does that compare to an isolate? 
A: The quick answer is that a properly filtered whey concentrate (WC) has more health and growth supporting properties than a whey isolate (WI). WI contains only the amino acids found in the whey protein. WC has the same amino acids but also contains the other parts of the whey protein that contributes to growth and immune support (like mother’s milk). WI strips out all these important components, which may be helpful if someone has an unusual allergy to the protein in dairy, as the allergy may be to one of these growth factors. None of the dotFIT powders have measurable lactose – i.e., virtually all lactose is removed during processing regardless if WC or WI. See below from your Practitioner Dietary Supplement Reference Guide (PDSRG) for more on WC. Here is a link to the section WheySmooth.
From page #5 


Name: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Phone: [PHONE]
Message: My understanding of the use of Whey Concentrate vs isolate is that the former is more cost effective and less potent than the later. If true, why does DotFit use Concerntrate?

Hi [NAME],
Thanks for contacting us. You are correct about cost effective but incorrect about outcomes. A properly filtered whey concentrate, such as the dotFIT whey protein powders, should always be a person’s first choice if they want the benefits beyond just the amino acids. Isolates are good for people with true unusual dairy protein allergies. Therefore, a good whey concentrate will yield greater overall long-term results more the majority of users.
See below for more information and an FAQ. The dotFIT specialized LeanMR powder uses a whey isolate for those with allergies or have a genetic problem with cholesterol. The LeanMR is a complete meal replacement based on the specialized carbohydrates and fats. 
Thanks again and have great day!

More Info
We do not plan to make a pure whey isolate because we do not have a large market for the product since whey concentrate is preferred by our athletes and fitness enthusiast because a properly filtered whey concentrate contains exactly the same amino acid profile but also contains health a growth factors that an isolate strips out. Further, our concentrate goes through an complicated filtration process to take out everything we do NOT want such as lactose. That’s the difference between a good whey concentrate and an inexpensive one – the filtration process we require to save all the good natural stuff gives more overall long-term benefits. I placed an FAQ below from a practitioner that can give you more information including a link to the Whey Protein section in the Practitioner Dietary Supplement Reference Guide (PDSRG).

Q: I noticed you use a Whey concentrate; how does that compare to an isolate? 
A: The quick answer is that a properly filtered whey concentrate (WC) has more health and growth supporting properties than a whey isolate (WI). WI contains only the amino acids found in the whey protein. WC has the same amino acids but also contains the other parts of the whey protein that contributes to growth and immune support (like mother’s milk). WI strips out all these important components, which may be helpful if someone has an unusual allergy to the protein in dairy, as the allergy may be to one of these growth factors. None of the dotFIT powders have measurable lactose – i.e., virtually all lactose is removed during processing regardless if WC or WI. See below from your Practitioner Dietary Supplement Reference Guide (PDSRG) for more on WC. Here is a link to the section WheySmooth.
From page #5 

   



From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Thursday, April 13, 2023 11:52 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Contact Us


 
 

