Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. Yes, Weight Loss & Liver Support (WLLS) can be helpful to anyone trying to lose bodyfat/weight. Besides supporting the body’s liver activity, which is the body’s most important fat burning organ, WLLS also contains African Mango to support appetite control. As the person gets leaner and wants to finish their bodyfat/weight loss journey, you can switch to ThermAccel, which is a more aggressive bodyfat reduction product as it also contains a mild stimulant blend to significantly boost metabolism. I placed the most popular bodyfat/weight loss complete dietary support program below that includes WLLS. See below for more product information and/or click on their embedded links for short descriptions including videos.
Thanks again and have a great weekend.

 

Level-1 for Fast Results & Daily Recovery with Meal Replacement/Substitute Integration Program
Click on product links for a brief product description including short video
Daily:
dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender and follow label directions. If 50yrs or older use Over50 unless noted below; if female under 50 use Women’s; Males and very active females (competitive training protocols) under 50 use 2-Active, with both genders continuing use till 65yrs if still training competitively at which time every person will use Over50; children under 12yr use Kids; children 12-17yr use 1-Active. Vegans use 1-Vegan
Weight Loss & Liver Support
Take 3 daily as directed. 1- before each of 3 meals or evenly split throughout the day
LeanMR (protein and fiber rich meal replacement formula) 
Use as directed within daily meal planning (see below) and to make sure you get ~1 gram of protein per pound of lean body mass (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources divided 4-5 times daily depending on preference
Can also be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired ingredients) to shore up total daily protein needs. See below for proper menu integration.
Meal Replacement/Substitute Integration 
You may also click here for a simple ready to go solution including sample menus with proper calories, foods and LeanMR meal replacement diet integration
Weight Loss Phase:
Meal Replacements (MRs) generally supply two small meals a day and allow freedom of choice from traditional foods for the remaining allotted foods/calories. Therefore, use as two small meals within any calorie restricted meal plan of 4-5 meals since frequent meals are often better for bodyfat/weight reduction than fewer larger ones especially as it relates to satiety, preservation of lean body mass (LBM) and energy levels. LeanMR recipes are available here
Maintenance Phase 
Continue to consume 4-5 small meals daily within caloric allotment that includes 2 MRs for convenience and to help ensure overall diet quality while reducing food costs. A wide variety of healthy recipes including meal replacement recipes are available here

  


From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Thursday, April 20, 2023 4:38 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Supplements
Question: Would the LiverSupport supplement be useful to someone that has extra body fat…about 20lb of fat to loose, but is not obese?
 

