Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. . Yes, you can take Weight Loss and Liver Support (WLLS) and ThermAccel (TA) together and it is commonly done. Just follow directions on each bottle. See below for more information (FAQ).
Also see below for how products you named fit into a complete program and more information at the bottom of email. if you are not averse to stimulants and you choose to use ThermAccel and NO7, make sure you separate their ingestion by at least 3hours and do not use with other stimulants such as more caffeine. And FYI, all products have complete nutrition and/or supplement facts information on the website including brief product descriptions with short videos. Simply go to dotFIT.com, click store, then select the product you are looking for such as CreatineMonohydtrate and pre workout formulas such as  ExtremeCreatineXXXL+, NO7Rage.
Thanks again and have a great weekend.

Q: Do you recommend Weight Loss and Liver Support (WLLS) and ThermAccel used together if I want to boost weight/fat loss? 
A: Yes, you can use with ThermAccel (TA) and  Weight Loss and Liver Support together, or any of the dotFIT weight loss products such as, CarbRepel, and it is commonly done with people needing extra help, as each product works to support appetite and metabolism through different and unique mechanisms. Simply follow the directions on each product label. The links will take you to a brief product description including short video.
FYI: all products have complete nutrition and/or supplement facts information on the website including brief product descriptions with short videos. Simply go to dotFIT.com, click store, then select the product you are looking for such as CreatineMonohydtrate and pre workout formulas such as  ExtremeCreatineXXXL+, NO7Rage.
Thanks again and have a great weekend.


Performance & Size Plan & Instructions with Creatine Monohydrate & NO7 Rage (maintain BA levels)
Daily
 dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender. If 50yrs or older use Over50 unless noted below; if female under 50 use Women’s; Males and very active females (competitive training protocols) under 50 use 2-Active, with both genders continuing use till 65yrs if still training competitively at which time every person will use Over50; children under 12yr use Kids; children 12-17yr use 1-Active). Pure Vegans, use VeganMV
 Take as directed with meals
 WheySmooth or other favorite dotFIT protein mix (based on caloric allotment for goal)
 Use as directed to make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of LBM (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 3-5 times daily
 Can be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired supporting contents) to shore up total daily protein needs
 Take as directed before and after workout (see below)
 Weight Loss & Liver Support
 Take 3 daily as directed. 1- before each of 3 meals or evenly split throughout the day
 
Begin Creatine Monohydrate loading at 2nd week of training
CreatineMonohydrate Loading & Maintenance Strategy (if you are under 175LBS you can cut the daily maintenance dose in half* - i.e., after loading period, take a total of 5gms daily and split as described as described below – therefore your daily NO7 will cover your creatine maintenance needs at less than this body weight) 
Mix 1 scoop (5gms) with 4-8oz of favorite fluid/shake and take 4 times daily with a protein and/or carbohydrate containing meal/drink for first 5 days. Thereafter take 1-scoop twice daily to maintain stores. To help maximize creatine uptake, split doses throughout the day with meals/drinks containing protein and/or carbohydrate
Training days: take 1-dose before workout & 1 after with meals/drinks (after loading, may discontinue pre-workout dose b/c NO7 will supply Cr). May mix with pre/post training formula
Non-training days* take 1-dose with AM meal and 1-dose with PM meal
NO7Rage3     
Daily (to maintain BA & Cr levels) take 1.5 to 2.5 scoops (depending on body weight). If necessary, because of caffeine sensitivity, start with lower dose and increase to proper body weight dosage if not uncomfortably affected by caffeine. Take approximately 10 minutes before workout and continue to consume during workout. See directions on label for weight dosages
NO7Rage contains 150mg of caffeine per scoop. As a reference: Starbucks Grande-drip coffee contains ~330 mg of caffeine
Non-training days, take 1 serving anytime of the day but do not use within 4hours of sleep or ingestion of anything containing stimulants 
*Programs total daily creatine first 5 days: 20g/d (plus 3.7-6.5 g from NO7). Maintenance phase: workout days =7.5-12.5; non-workout days 7.5-12.5g. To maximize uptake, creatine intake should be spread as evenly as possible throughout the day and around the workout as described and ingested with some carb and/or protein containing meals or shakes. BA total daily intake =3-5gm
Workout Days:
WheySmooth or other favorite dotFIT protein mix
Take 1scoop ~30-40 minutes before workout
Take 1-scoop immediately following workout
CreatineMonohydrate
Goal
Increase muscle levels of creatine (Cr) and speed regeneration of creatine phosphate (PCr) beyond what can practically be accomplished by diet alone to benefit strength and power activities that are dependent on PCr as an energy source
Sprinting, jumping, weightlifting and carry over (e.g., size/strength gains) to a specific activity 
Sports requiring repetitive bursts of speed & power interrupted by periods of rest or low-intensity movements – e.g., intermittent athletes in team sports such as football, baseball, rugby, hockey, lacrosse, soccer  etc.
Cr supplementation (CS) is often used to slow aspects of aging
Support activity recovery
Rationale
Cr is in skeletal, cardiac, and smooth muscle to play an indispensable role in energy metabolism. The phosphorylated form, PCr, provides an immediate energy source for brain & muscles, thus the primary rationales for CS are to increase, replete and prolong this energy source & contribute to skeletal muscle (SM) volumization for recovery  
CS can increase SM total creatine content >15% and up to 24%, and >9% in the brain1,15,17,18
Increasing Cr/PCr availability in respective tissues to enhance their related activities, to also translate to the “field of Play”


NO7Rage3
Goal
Supply a pre-workout/activity product to improve the desire to train and deliver acute performance benefits (e.g., individual training session or competition outcomes), adding up to long-term benefits by maximizing each training bout induced adaptation potential via continuous stronger workout sessions that would build on each other helping to avoid training plateaus. 
Primary Multiple Ingredient Pre-Workout Supplement (MIPS) rationale - beside convenience 
Ingredients are individually known to accomplish size, performance and nitric oxide increases
The ergogenic potential of: 1) creatine for size and strength; 2) beta-alanine for force production and anaerobic endurance; 3) caffeine, glucuronolactone and taurine for muscle & mental endurance and focus29-36
Combined with the effects of:
Nitrosigine and L-citrulline to enhance nitric oxide (NO) production increasing vasodilation to amplify the training session and response37-41 & glycerol for muscle hydration348-362 = muscle pump improving all cellular activities
Ingredients simultaneously ingested, may have additive positive effects immediately on the “field of play” and setting the stage to maximize each training session’s contribution to various desired muscular adaptations216-221,363-365
 
Improved acute performance and setting the stage to maximize the training session contribution to enhanced adaptation, thus creating an environment  for continuous positive change where further nutrition modulations can now finish the desired result and avoid common training plateaus

NO7Rage (Pre-Workout & Anabolic Environment Enhancer) to Maximize Muscular Adaptation Potential from Continuous “Better Workouts” and transfer to the “field of play” 
1) Greater desire to exercise
2) Increased strength & power output & muscle endurance (delay fatigue and reduce RPE/pain)
3) Longer and enhanced alertness and focus
4) Improved muscle vasodilation and blood volume leading to greater muscle swelling, energy substrate delivery and waste product removal 
5) Attenuate muscle damage 
6) Enhanced anabolic environment: faster more efficient recovery for net MPS and continuous performance gains especially when post exercise nutrition is maximized 



From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Saturday, December 16, 2023 9:07 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Supplements
Question: can you take therm accell with weightloss and liver support. would also like to to know about creatine with it as well as the preworkout
 

