Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. Yes, we have a Multivitamin and Mineral Formula (MVM) for women and men Over 50years (Over50MV). Based on true science, at age 50yrs there is no basis for altering a formula based on gender for the general population. There are some women and men that may have special needs beyond a complete MVM based on a clinical evaluation but that would be a performed by a qualified medical professional. See below for more information from the Practitioner Dietary Supplement Reference Guide (PDSRG) regarding a MVM design criteria for human over 50Yrs. Also immediately below are the dotFIT recommendations used by Practitioners and the program algorithms and a related FAQ.
Thanks again and have a great day!

Women’s MV Recommendation
Women 18-50yrs (non-vegans) who are not using the ActiveMV (see ActiveMV criteria/software recommendation*)
Activity levels defined as sedentary thru recreationally active (most females exercising 3-6 times/week)
Females not using doctor recommended prenatal multivitamin and mineral formula
Take one daily immediately following first food meal of the day
*Intense/competitive training female athletes 18-65 years (participating in daily extended vigorous training sessions and regularly controlled energy intakes), take 2-Actives 
Note: 1 Women’s MVM contains more VMs than 1 Active, but slightly less than 2 Actives, with some minor adjustments in specific VM amounts based on female diet and needs

FAQ
Q: I am interested in a good Multivitamin and Mineral Formula (MVM) to take daily. I am a 56year old very active woman. I do strength training 3 times a week, cycle 200miles/week and walk and run 25-30 miles weekly.
A: The MVM that would support your activities and longevity would be the ActiveMV, which covers the needs of very active individuals up to the age of 65yrs at which point all people switch the Over50MV. See below for more info, mindful that the dotFIT program automatically selects the proper MVM once you enter your individual information.
More Info
Below is the dotFIT MVM usage table contained in the program. Click on links for brief product descriptions including short video
Proper age, activity, size and gender dosing
Ages 2-11 yrs: (2-4yr take 1; 5-11yr take 2)KidMV
All 12-17 yrs: 1 ActiveMV 
Women 18-50 yrs:  take 1 daily Women’sMV* 
Males 18-50 yrs: 2 ActiveMV 
All hard training male and female athletes 18-65 yrs: 2 ActiveMV
50+ yrs: take 2 daily Over50 Everyone except athletes using ActiveMV 
65+ yrs: take 2 Over50 – Everyone
Vegan/VegetarianMV adult alternative: take 1 VeganMV
*From PDSRG: At 18yrs based on size and/or activity, women (and men) would switch to two Active MVs daily if consistently vigorously active. Recreationally or typically active females begin the Women’sMV formula, at one 1 daily to achieve the same correction

From the PDSRG:
Vitamins and Minerals in Aging 
All humans require the same vitamins and essential minerals (VM) to create, develop and maintain life.1 The Recommended Dietary Allowances (RDAs) for vitamins D, B6 and the mineral calcium* are slightly higher after age 50 or 70 yrs2 (the B12 RDA is not higher but generally recognized that higher amounts are necessary in aging3,4 ). Chromium, chloride and iron requirements are set at slightly lower levels after age 50 yrs.2 These differences are so minute in relation to acceptable nutrient ranges, that a properly formulated complete vitamin and mineral supplement (CVMS) can cover the corrective vitamin and mineral needs of almost all adults including an amount to offset semi-altered nutrient metabolism (e. g. aging, digestion, absorption, gender, etc.1,2,5 ) while remaining significantly under the tolerable upper limit (UL) when combined with diets in western nations (including fortification),6 with the exception of very active and/or large humans as noted and referenced in a separate document titled “dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral Formulas Specialty Design Criteria.”
In summary, potentially except for persons with lifestyles that includes regular vigorous activity, according to our established guidelines, aging itself requires little to nothing special that cannot be contained in the same formula of younger adult counterparts.* See Table 6 in the article “Vitamin and Mineral Supplementation in Human Health – A Case for Public Policy7 ” showing: 1) recommended total vitamin and intake (RDA/Adequate Intake[AI]) for the designated life stage established by the Dietary Reference Intakes; 2) RDA/AI vitamin and mineral gaps when intake is from food alone (including fortification); 3) vitamin and essential mineral supplement safety range (mean food intake to UL) considering food intake; 4) proposed vitamin and mineral safe and effective supplement range to close the micronutrient gaps between the RDA/AI and food to achieve the scientific consensus of recommended vitamin and mineral intakes to complement the western food diet of typical adults regardless of gender or age.



Over50MV (full text here)
Goal
To supply VM in amounts necessary to complement typical food intake to reach the established RDAs that promote health in all persons over 50 years of age. This formula considers food intake compared to the RDA and AI levels for health and supplies corrective amounts so that combined with diet, and other supplement intake if necessary, keeps the user within the safe and recommended vitamin and mineral range. The range is defined as starting close or equal to the vitamin and mineral RDA/AI and ending below the UL or No Observed Adverse Effect Level (NOAEL). Most importantly this formula contains 19 VM that are known to be potentially shorted when food alone is the delivery, so that the human vitamin and mineral needs are shored up within any typical American diet, other than those minerals that cannot fit in an acceptable pill size* such as calcium and potassium. Along with other often shorted VM, other than calcium and fiber due to pill size, the seven nutrients of concern (dietary fiber, choline, magnesium, calcium, and vitamins A, E, and C), identified by the Dietary Guidelines for Americans (DGA), are contained in the Over50MV in corrective amounts when added to known U.S. and other western nations’ food intake vitamin and mineral content.
From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Sunday, March 5, 2023 5:12 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Supplements
Question: Do you offer women’s multi vitamins for women over 50? 
 

