Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. Always do your best (without pressure) to get your child to eat healthy. But we all know kids are picky eaters and no diet will supply all the nutrition they need to grow and develop to their full potential. Therefore, just as we did while the child was in the womb, we continue to fill their essential nutrition gaps, to maximize growth and development, including height. For your 5 an 7yr olds, a perfect daily Multivitamin and Mineral Formula (MVM), using a great tasting protein/carbohydrate mix like FirstString, to function as a delivery system for things kids don’t necessarily like, but need (i.e., using a protein-based smoothie to include fruits, milk, vegies, etc,.). It’s a win/win. 
See below and keep in mind all programs we create not only help prevent injury, speed recovery, improve training/exercise induced results but also contribute to better overall health while maximizing growth and development potential including height. Proper nutrition makes our children and athletes better “on the field” and in the classroom.
The FirstString Protein mix/shake is a 3rd party tested and lactose free (as all our products) food product that we have the youth athletes (any active youth) we work with use for a pre and post activity shake for energy and recovery, and/or weight/muscle gain. Below is more information including incorporating FirstString into daily planning along with a multivitamin and mineral formula (MVM) to also aid recovery and fill important nutrient gaps common to youngsters. If a child has diet restrictions on animal protein, they would use the Best Plant Protein – Vegan product. I have also cc’d Berlinda here in case you have any questions.
Thanks again and have a great night. 
Youth/Athlete Growth, Development, Performance, Recovery & Health Dietary Support Plan
Click on product links for a brief product description including short video

Daily:  
KidMV (ages 2-11yrs) 2-4yrs take 1; 5-11yrs take 2; Ages 12-17rs use ActiveMV and Take-1 daily with meal until age 18; Then take 2 daily, one with AM meal and one with PM meal
Daily as needed:
FirstString
Use as directed to make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of LBM (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 4-5 times daily, which include the pre/post activity shake
Can be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired supporting contents) to shore up total daily protein and calorie needs for weight/muscle gain needs
SuperCalcium (read all food and shake labels) (using FirstString or other dotFIT protein powder regularly with other typical diet calcium intake would probably meet calcium needs without supplementing)
Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food/shake intake
Females take 1 or 2 daily with meals; if you need to take 2, take one with AM meal and the 2nd with PM meal; Males take 1 only if necessary
SuperOmega-3
Take 1-2 daily with meal if not consuming 8-16oz/wk fatty fish (take 1 if >8oz/wk but <16; 2 if ≤8oz); not necessary if consuming ≥16oz/wk unless for athletic recovery purposes
Workout days
FirstString* - use as directed to get:
21gm/protein (2scoops) 30-40min before workout & repeat same dose immediately post exercise
*May substitute favorite dotFIT Nutrition High Protein Bar based on venue convenience


From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Monday, November 11, 2024 5:10 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Contact Us


 
Name: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Phone: [PHONE]
Message: Hey! I'm checking to see what you'd recommend for kids. Aged 5 and 7. 
 

