Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. See below your baseline dietary support program that everyone will include when pursuing the goals you describe for yourself ( “Want to gain weight, trim up, and more energy as well”). Additionally, you have free access to the dotFIT nutrition program (dotFIT program).
The dotFIT program contains all your health and fitness needs including your body composition goal and exercise programming (if you have a trainer, they will use it with you). Once in the program, simply choose your goal to get started and you will receive a personalized diet and exercise program. I have cc’d Berlinda here to connect with you to help get you started as necessary.
Thanks again and have a great day.

Baseline Dietary Support for all Sport & Fitness Goals
(Click on product links for a brief product description including short video)
Daily:
dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender. If 50yrs or older use Over50 unless noted below; if female under 50 use Women’s; Males and very active females (competitive training protocols) under 50 use 2-Active, with both genders continuing use till 65yrs if still training competitively at which time every person will use Over50; children under 12yr use Kids; children 12-17yr use 1-Active). Pure Vegans, use VeganMV
Take as directed with meals
WheySmooth or other favorite dotFIT protein mix (based on caloric allotment for goal)
Use as directed to make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of LBM (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 3-5 times daily
Can be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired supporting contents) to shore up total daily protein needs
As needed:
Super Calcium (read all food labels for calcium content including dotFIT protein shakes)*
Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food/shake intake
Females take 1 or 2 daily with meals; if you need to take 2, take one with AM meal and the 2nd with PM meal; Males take 1 only if necessary
Super Omega 3 
Take 1-2 daily with meal if not consuming 8-16oz/wk fatty fish (take 1 if >8oz/wk but <16; 2 if ≤8oz); not necessary if consuming ≥16oz/wk unless for athletic recovery purposes, then increase as directed
*All food labels including Protein Powders must contain calcium levels by serving so always check
Workout Days:
WheySmooth or other favorite dotFIT protein mix
Take 1scoop ~30-40 minutes before workout
Take 1-scoop immediately following workout


From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Sunday, August 4, 2024 5:44 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Contact Us


 
Name: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Phone: [PHONE]
Message: 55 on some medication issues from the VA. Just want to find out what's available with out it interacting with my medication. Want to gain weight trim up and more energy ad well
 

