Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. You could take the 3 products simultaneously by following each individual product’s directions if necessary, such as being behind schedule on your body composition goal, or needing extra help to reduce bodyfat. But the LeanPac90 was originally designed to take the bottles one at a time as stated on the box, which would take 90days. See below for related questions and answers.
Thanks again and have a great week.


Hi [NAME],
Thanks for contacting us. Yes, you can use the fat loss supplements you named simultaneously, and it is commonly done when people are in a hurry to lose fat (behind schedule) or need extra help. See below for more information.
Thanks again and have a great Sunday.

FAQs
Q: Can I take all Lean Pack 90 products daily or individually over the 90days? 
A: You can use the products as they are designed for the kit, meaning using the Weight Loss and Liver Support the first 30days; Carb Repel the second 30days and end with ThermAccel for the last 30 days for a total of 90-days. Or you can use them simultaneously if you need extra assistance or have tight timeline to lose weight since they all work by different mechanisms. Simply use each one as directed daily.

Q: Do you recommend CR (or WLLS) and ThermAccel used together if I want to boost weight/fat loss? 
A: Yes, you can use CarbRepel with ThermAccel (TA), or any of the dotFIT weight loss products such as Weight Loss and Liver Support together, and it is commonly done with people needing extra help, as each product works to support appetite and metabolism through different and unique mechanisms. Simply follow the directions on each product label. The links will take you to a brief product description including short video.

Q: A client asked me if she should still take CarbRepel before a meal if not eating carbs at that particular meal. Also, what if you forget to take it 30 minutes before a meal? Can you take it right before or should you wait till later? 
A: No, you would not use CR if not consuming carbs, or very little carbs such as only vegetables or a little fruit. Taking CR as it was used in the clinical trials is ideal (~30min before a carb containing meal), but it will still work if you take it at/before, or very close, to the meal.  

Q: A client asked me if she should still take WLLS in the morning if she's not going to eat breakfast. Also, what if you forget to take it 30 minutes before a meal? Can you take it right before or should you wait till later? 
A: The bottom line is that the Weight Loss & Liver Support should be consumed 3 times daily and separated as evenly as possible to help maintain the desired levels of ingredients. Taking it before a meal is one way of spreading it out and getting help in appetite support within 30min. But it’s not necessary once you start using the product regularly. 
And yes, have your client take it in the morning even if not consuming breakfast.



 

From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Saturday, March 23, 2024 9:38 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Contact Us


 
Name: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Phone: [PHONE]
Message: Can I take carb repel, therm accel and the weight loss pill can I combine them for extra gains?
 

