Hey [CUSTOMER],
There are always anti-artificial sweetener people because they are constantly looking for more data to support their views and therefore, we make all-natural products for them. But obviously the FDA approved non-nutritional sweeteners (NNS) are completely safe within the amounts used (and actually far beyond those amounts). This is all covered in my protein  lectures (see attached slides) and in the PDSRG WheySmooth, FirstString (see example below), etc., sections with the peer review references. Also an FAQ from “ask the experts”.

 
Sweeteners in FirstString
Sweeteners used in FirstString appear at the end of the ingredient list as they are in minute amounts per serving and inert in human metabolism thus no effects within the body other than taste. For frequently asked questions (FAQs) on non-nutritive sweeteners click here. Non-nutritive sweeteners (NNS) are those that sweeten with minimal or no carbohydrate or energy. NNS are regulated by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as food additives.229 The FDA approval process includes determination of probable intake, cumulative effect from all uses and toxicology studies.229,230 Eight NNS (aspartame, acesulfame potassium, luo han guo [monk] fruit extract, neotame, saccharin, stevia, sucralose and advantame (aspartame analog by Ajinomoto) are approved for use in the United States (click here for a list, uses and metabolism) with acesulfame K and sucralose being among the most popular,216 largely because of their unique functional properties in enhancing food products including taste.216 As with any fitness supporting food product, the better the taste and versatility, the greater chance of sustained use to support health and fitness goals. 
Acesulfame Potassium (Ace-K)
Acesulfame potassium (chemical formula C4H4KNO4S; CAS registry number 55589‐62‐3) is approximately 200 times sweeter than sugar and is often combined with other sweeteners as an additional flavor enhancer in foods because it is heat stable during baking and environmentally friendly., Ace-K is typically used in frozen desserts, candies, beverages, and baked goods. More than 90 studies support its safety and is used in FirstString to support baking capacity and sweetness. For a complete current review on Ace-K, readers are referred to Belton et al.’s “A Review of the Environmental Fate and Effects of Acesulfame‐Potassium.”246 
Sucralose
Sucralose is also a NNS, and is made from sucrose by a process that substitutes three chloride atoms for three hydroxyl groups on the sucrose molecule., Sucralose, a very versatile NNS that is 450–650 times sweeter than sucrose, possesses a pleasant sweet taste and a quality and time intensity profile that is close to that of sucrose, making it a popular NNS.216, Sucralose has been extensively studied with more than 110 safety studies reviewed by the FDA in approving the use of sucralose as a general purpose sweetener for food.229,230,248, A primary advantage of sucralose for consumers is its exceptional stability. It retains its sweetness over a wide range of temperature and storage conditions and in solutions over time. This stability allows manufacturers to create greater tasting foods and beverages and maintain the fresh flavor. Like Ace-K, sucralose is heat stable, meaning that it stays sweet even when used at high temperatures during baking, making it a common sugar substitute in baked goods.250, 
The FDA established an acceptable daily intake (ADI) for sucralose of 5 milligrams per kilogram (Europe’s is 7 mg/kg and Canada’s is 11 mg/kg) of body weight (mg/kg) per day.*229 The amount of sucralose per serving in FirstString is ~34 mg.
*Out of safety precautions to protect all sub-groups of people, the ADI represents an amount 100 times less than the quantity of sucralose found to be safe in research studies.229 For a person weighing 150 pounds (68 kg), the US ADI equates to 340 mg of sucralose—the amount found in nine cans of diet soda or more than 28 individual packets of sucralose—consumed, on average, every day over a lifetime. Therefore, you could multiply these numbers by 100 before you would cross a known safety threshold in consumption.
  


 
Neal Spruce
CEO
Office. [PHONE]
Fax.     [PHONE]
Follow my podcast, SuppBeast, available on all channels!
           

From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Wednesday, October 16, 2024 6:29 PM
To: [NAME] <[EMAIL]>
Subject: acesulfame potassium

Hey [NAME],

I was just having a conversation with one of my mortgage clients.  She is a chiropractor and competitive body builder.  Of course I turned her on to dotFIT and fibr.

She told me she doesn’t use acesulfame potassium saying it was a neurotoxin.  

I pointed her to our All Natural Why and Best Plant Protein.  ( she likes those ) 

I just googled this to see what I can find.  I see EU allows up to 9 Milligrams per kilogram of body weight.  

So that would be 695mg for me at 170 lbs.  I’m guessing we have a tiny tiny fraction of that in our shakes…   

I told her what I found and that I’m guessing we have so little it’s not really an issue, but told her I would ask you as well.  

What’s your take on this?

Thanks!





Mark Rowland 
Director, fibrPRO Services

C: [PHONE]
E: [EMAIL]

[ADDRESS] 233
Westlake Village, CA 91361

www.info.fibr.fit

To Download the fibrAPP


https://calendly.com/mark-fibr/15min



