Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. First of all, congrats on staying active as that is the most important for healthy aging. At age 71, much of what is happening to your body is normal but with the proper nutrition you can push out the inevitable, and even reverse it for a time so that you can remain active. We call it nutrition for your Playspan® so that it can equal your lifespan. Part of your nutrition solution would be making sure you consume 1gm of protein per pound of lean body mass (LBM) daily, with some before and after your exercise. You can choose any of our proteins based on preference as they all have the highest biological value and lactose free. WheySmooth (WS), All-Natural WheySmooth (ANWS) and the all-natural/vegan BestPlantProtein (BPP) are all high protein in low calories and may be what is best for you, so pick as desired (WS is most popular unless you are vegan then use the BPP).
You also want to make sure you are including a complete Multivitamin and Mineral Formula (MVM) or use the dotFIT Alln1 SuperBlendTM. I put both complete programs below (includes your protein) that we give as a baseline for all exercisers that want to remain active. I have cc’d Berlinda here to help with any questions. You can contact her and get on a call, as necessary. Be ready to be forever young!
Thanks again and keep playing!

Baseline: Health/Recovery/Performance – Playspan® (keep doing the activities you love)
Baseline Dietary Support for all Sport & Fitness Goals
(Click on product links for a brief product description including short video)
Daily:
dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender If 50yrs or older use Over50 unless noted below; if female under 50 use Women’s; Males and very active females (competitive training protocols) under 50 use 2-Active, with both genders continuing use till 65yrs if still training competitively at which time every person will use Over50; children under 12yr use Kids; children 12-17yr use 1-Active). All vegans use VeganMV 
Take as directed with meals
Daily as needed:
WheySmooth* or other favorite dotFIT protein mix 
Use as directed to make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of LBM (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 3-5 times daily
If exercising, use as directed to get ~25gm/protein 30-40min before workout & repeat dose immediately post workout (see below)
Can be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired supporting contents) to shore up total daily protein needs
Super Omega 3 
Take 1-2 daily with meal if not consuming 8-16oz/wk fatty fish (take 1 if >8oz/wk but <16; 2 if ≤8oz); not necessary if consuming ≥16oz/wk unless for athletic recovery purposes
Workout days
WheySmooth* or other favorite dotFIT protein mix
Use as directed to get ~25gm/protein 30-40min before workout & repeat dose immediately post workout

Undisputed cornerstones of a long healthy active life are 1) meeting nutrient recommendations, which drives; 2) regular activity, which establishes and maintains; 3) healthy body composition -in that order.

Baseline: Health/Recovery/Performance – Playspan® With Alln1 SuperBlendTM 
Baseline Dietary Support for all Sport & Fitness Goals
(Click on product links for a brief product description including short video)
Daily
 Alln1 SuperBlendTM  (contains ActiveMV, and much more. See below)
Take as directed: 1-serving daily; may take all at once or ½ in AM and ½ in PM; visit recipe section to incorporate as desired into daily lifestyle*
Daily as needed:
 Favorite dotFIT protein mix (WheySmooth, All Natural WheySmooth and the all vegan BestPlantProtein are most popular and cover all diet types – all are lactose free)1
Use as directed to make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of LBM (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 3-5 times daily
If exercising, use as directed to get ~25gm/protein 30-40min before workout & repeat dose immediately post workout (see below)
Can be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired supporting contents) to shore up total daily protein needs
Super Calcium (read all food labels for calcium content including dotFIT protein shakes)*
Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food/shake intake
Workout days
 dotFIT Protein of choice1. Use as directed to get:
25gm/protein 30-40min before workout & repeat same dose immediately following exercise
1May substitute favorite dotFIT Nutrition High Protein Bar based on venue convenience
*Most popular way of consuming SB daily is mixing it with water and 25gms of vanilla WheySmooth
Nutrition facts based on 1scoop of WS and 1scoop of Alln1 SuperBlendTM
25gms protein, 16.5gm CHO, 4gms fat, 352mg calcium, 208mg potassium, 195cals
Full days’ recommendation for: Vitamins & minerals, antioxidants, probiotics, prebiotics, Ashwagandha, turmeric & mushroom blend, along with 6gms of fiber and 2 full servings of vegetables
As desired, add any fruit for the perfect one and done health habit. visit recipe section


From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Friday, March 29, 2024 6:00 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Contact Us


 
Name: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Phone: [PHONE]
Message: Hello - I am a 71-year-old woman who is pretty active playing tennis and golf and working out a few times a week in the gym. My concern is that I am losing muscle. I am on the thin side and my arms are becoming skinnier and more wrinkled. I also am tired much of the time even though I am active. Which protein product do you recommend for me and my situation? I would like to build muscle and have more energy. I appreciate your help.
 

