Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. The FirstString Protein is what athletes/exercisers use to improve muscle size and performance because it contains the exact same whey protein as WheySmooth but has the additional calories and carbohydrate (CHO) content per serving to support the energy requirement necessary for intense workouts that lead to increases in muscle and performance, which includes better overall exercise recovery. See below for more information. That said, you can still use the WheySmooth and add your choice of carbohydrates/calories  (e.g., fruits, juices, specialized CHO mixtures, etc., see the recipe section) to your daily shake. I also placed a note regarding monitoring muscle gain below including ideal mealtimes.
Hope this helps. Thanks again and have a great evening.



Muscle/weight gain
Total daily calorie intake should be moderately above current expenditure, such as 250-500cals (dotFIT program will automatically create the right menus and choose the “Athletic Menu” to use as a guideline). If weight gain does not occur as described, you may add roughly 100 to 250 calories to your daily total (based on body size) consisting of equal amounts of carbohydrates and protein and moderate fat. For example, 20 g protein, 20 g carbohydrate, 10 g fat equaling 250 calories. If preferred, use your shakes or snacks to supply extra calories. Following the addition of extra calories, if after one week weight gain does not occur, repeat the above process*. All this is automatically taken care of using your dotFIT program.
*If body fat or overall weight increases undesirably, slightly reduce daily caloric intake, or add a preferred form of aerobic exercise until you achieve your desired weight trend.

Staying within the calories conducive to your body composition goal, below are the ideal mealtimes to maximize performance
Meal Timings 
As possible eat every 3-4-hours
Larger pre-training/event meal 2-3Hr before training
Larger post meal ~30-60min after last post workout supplement
Early morning training
Eat a large pre-training type meal the night before
Consume only the pre-workout snack/shake before training (as shown above) & follow workout day supplement schedule above
Tournament play (multiple games)
<1.5Hr break: bars and hydration/electrolyte recovery drink
1.5-2.5Hr: small pre-training-type meal
>2.5Hr: normal pre-training meal
Fluid Recommendations* 
16 oz 2Hr before activity (extra 8-16 oz 1hr before on hot days)
4-8 oz every 20 minutes during activity
20 oz for every pound of weight loss post-activity
*Use electrolyte formula (e.g., Gatorade) and water as directed



From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Thursday, August 8, 2024 2:40 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Supplements
Question: I previously bought the Whey Smooth. I'm out and need to buy more, but wanted to check in and see if that is a good product for me or if I should be using something different. I'm happy with my weight, but I want to build muscle. I workout 5-6 times a week doing group workouts like power yoga, barre, and pilates. 
 

