Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. The dotFIT BrainHealth supplement (BH) is different than brain/memory supplements that claim to improve memory. The BH supplement is designed to protect the brain from general age-related cognitive decline, which is why the goal is to start using around age 45yrs when normal brain nutrition (see ingredients in BH) is compromised from natural aging including digestion and diet. Further, the reason you see an increase in servings by age is because as we age, we become more resistant to the brain nutrition, thus increasing it according to science, may continue to stave off age-related cognitive decline. In summary, the BH is used to keep your brain intact including preserving memory by feeding it all it can use. Whereas the so-called memory enhancers, which are not evidence-based, claim to bring your memory back (and they generally do not contain brain nutrition).
At your age, the dosage of the BH can stop at 8-tabs/d rather than going to 12 since we changed the formula to a tableted form (the label still says 3-svg after 65, but it shouldn’t be necessary now – but it won’t hurt either). The new label (couple of months) will reflect the 1 and 2 serving age amounts, leaving off the 3rd.  I placed some data below from the Practitioner Dietary Supplement Reference Guide (PDSRG) that is used for staff education and certification (not consumer facing) regarding the BH. Most importantly for you would be to make sure your brain is being fed properly, remain active and challenge your brain regularly.
Hope this helps.
Thanks again and have a great day.
  
From the PDSRG

Advanced Brain Health™ Formula
Goal
To supply nutrition that’s often limited by typical diets and the inevitable factors of the natural aging process, and known to support healthy brain function, including potentially reducing the risk of age-related cognitive decline.
Rationale
Until late in the 20th century, the basic theory was that we enter adult life with a set number of brain cells that deteriorate gradually until brain function falls apart. During the past 10 years, neuroscientists have proved that this does not need to be the case. The brain does continue to form new connections and to make changes in response to new demands. Like most every other part of the body, the brain is a “use it or lose it” organ. This fact not only means performing regular brain activities but also includes physical activity because exercise helps the brain maintain structural integrity through increased blood flow. Despite this new knowledge, it is common for people to experience overall decline in brain function with age. This tendency may be influenced by reduced use of the brain, sedentary lifestyles2 and by common limitations in brain nutrition.

Several substances are showing the potential to support brain function and to slow (and possibly stop or reverse) age-related decline in mental function. Among these substances, phosphatidylserine (PS), acetyl-L-carnitine (ALC), alpha-lipoic acid (ALA), and vitamin B-12 have been found to offer support to the maintenance of aging brain function. Following the middle-age years, supplementation with these compounds may balance a decline in the body’s production or absorption of these substances that are essential for normal brain and neurological function.,,, Clinical findings support the benefit of nutritional supplements for cognitive performance and mood/behavior and suggest that additional supplementation may be required for the elderly.,



From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Tuesday, April 9, 2024 9:27 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Supplements
Question: Hello, I am currently taking the All in One and fish oil supplement. I just turned 70. Have been trying Memory Supplements with limited success. In reviewing your brain health supplement. I noticed the large quantities taken compared to other memory supplements. Which causes me to ask the feedback you have received from people taking this. Does it work?? Thanks Scott 
 

