Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. Generally a person your age will not need the added brain nutrition in the dotFIT BrainHealth supplement (BH) formula as long as you are taking your dotFIT Multivitamin and Mineral Formula (MVM) or the Alln1 SuperBlendTM (contains the MVM and much more including brain health support nutrition). The baseline program below (what we give all active people that want to remain “forever young” and active), would have all you need at this point in your life to support overall brain health including cognitive function. That said, I would choose using the Alln1 SuperBlendTM (SB) because of the extra antioxidants, mushroom blend, pre and probiotics, etc., all nutrition that supports brain functions and antiaging for all ages. When you turn 45yrs, you can then add the dotFIT BrainHealth supplement (BH). I also placed a related BH Q&A at the bottom of this email.
Thanks again and have a great day.
Baseline: Health/Recovery/Performance – Playspan® (keep doing the activities you love)
Baseline Dietary Support for all Sport & Fitness Goals
(Click on product links for a brief product description including short video)
Daily:
Active Multivitamin Mineral Formula. Or use the Alln1 SuperBlendTM (SB) and take as directed  - see below* for the extra nutrition and common usage) 
Take two (2) daily: one immediately following first large meal and one following the final meal of the day
Daily as needed:
WheySmooth* or other favorite dotFIT protein mix 
Use as directed to make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of LBM (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 3-5 times daily
If exercising, use as directed to get ~25gm/protein 30-40min before workout & repeat dose immediately post workout (see below)
Can be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired supporting contents) to shore up total daily protein needs
Super Omega 3 
Take 1-2 daily with meal if not consuming 8-16oz/wk fatty fish (take 1 if >8oz/wk but <16; 2 if ≤8oz); not necessary if consuming ≥16oz/wk unless for athletic recovery purposes
Workout days
WheySmooth* or other favorite dotFIT protein mix
Use as directed to get ~25gm/protein 30-40min before workout & repeat dose immediately post workout.

*Most popular way of consuming SB daily is mixing it with water and 25gms of vanilla WheySmooth
Nutrition facts based on 1scoop of WS and 1scoop of Alln1 SuperBlendTM
25gms protein, 16.5gm CHO, 4gms fat, 352mg calcium, 208mg potassium, 195cals
Full days’ recommendation for: Vitamins & minerals, antioxidants, probiotics, prebiotics, Ashwagandha, turmeric & mushroom blend, along with 6gms of fiber and 2 full servings of vegetables
As desired, add any fruit for the perfect one and done health habit. visit recipe section

Undisputed cornerstones of a long healthy active life are 1) meeting nutrient recommendations, which drives; 2) regular activity, which establishes and maintains; 3) healthy body composition -in that order.


More info (Q&A)
Question: Hello, I am currently taking the All in One and fish oil supplement. I just turned 70. Have been trying Memory Supplements with limited success. In reviewing your brain health supplement. I noticed the large quantities taken compared to other memory supplements. Which causes me to ask the feedback you have received from people taking this. Does it work??
Answer: The dotFIT BrainHealth supplement (BH) is different than brain/memory supplements that claim to improve memory. The BH supplement is designed to protect the brain from general age-related cognitive decline, which is why the goal is to start using around age 45yrs when normal brain nutrition (see ingredients in BH) is compromised from natural aging including digestion and diet. Further, the reason you see an increase in servings by age is because as we age, we become more resistant to the brain nutrition, thus increasing it according to science, may continue to stave off age-related cognitive decline. In summary, the BH is used to keep your brain intact including preserving memory by feeding it all it can use. Whereas the so-called memory enhancers, which are not evidence-based, claim to bring your memory back (and they generally do not contain brain nutrition).
At your age, the dosage of the BH can stop at 8-tabs/d rather than going to 12 since we changed the formula to a tableted form (the label still says 3-svg after 65, but it shouldn’t be necessary now – but it won’t hurt either). The new label (couple of months) will reflect the 1 and 2 serving age amounts, leaving off the 3rd.  I placed some data below from the Practitioner Dietary Supplement Reference Guide (PDSRG) that is used for staff education and certification (not consumer facing) regarding the BH. Most importantly for you would be to make sure your brain is being fed properly, remain active and challenge your brain regularly.
Hope this helps.
  
From the PDSRG

Advanced Brain Health™ Formula
Goal
To supply nutrition that’s often limited by typical diets and the inevitable factors of the natural aging process, and known to support healthy brain function, including potentially reducing the risk of age-related cognitive decline.
Rationale
Until late in the 20th century, the basic theory was that we enter adult life with a set number of brain cells that deteriorate gradually until brain function falls apart. During the past 10 years, neuroscientists have proved that this does not need to be the case. The brain does continue to form new connections and to make changes in response to new demands. Like most every other part of the body, the brain is a “use it or lose it” organ. This fact not only means performing regular brain activities but also includes physical activity because exercise helps the brain maintain structural integrity through increased blood flow. Despite this new knowledge, it is common for people to experience overall decline in brain function with age. This tendency may be influenced by reduced use of the brain, sedentary lifestyles2 and by common limitations in brain nutrition.

Several substances are showing the potential to support brain function and to slow (and possibly stop or reverse) age-related decline in mental function. Among these substances, phosphatidylserine (PS), acetyl-L-carnitine (ALC), alpha-lipoic acid (ALA), and vitamin B-12 have been found to offer support to the maintenance of aging brain function. Following the middle-age years, supplementation with these compounds may balance a decline in the body’s production or absorption of these substances that are essential for normal brain and neurological function.,,, Clinical findings support the benefit of nutritional supplements for cognitive performance and mood/behavior and suggest that additional supplementation may be required for the elderly.,

  

From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Tuesday, April 16, 2024 6:38 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Contact Us


 
Name: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Phone: [PHONE]
Message: Hello Dotfit Team, I was interested in the advance brain/anti aging pills. As a 26 year old, could I still benefit from this? The instructions imply it is mostly only for older folk. Please let me know! Thank You, Huy
 

