Hey [CUSTOMER],
I’m definitely not an expert on tinnitus and natural remedies so I don’t have much to say here. However, looking at the formula, it does appear suspect in the fact that they don’t give you amounts of the individual ingredients and the total is very low, meaning that effective dosages of each ingredient would be higher than the total. Certainly, no mainstream scientist would support the product. That said, the ingredients at those low dosages shouldn’t harm you, so if you feel compelled, give it try and see if it helps. Sorry I couldn’t be more helpful.
Hope all is well – have a great day! 


From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Tuesday, September 17, 2024 8:48 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: N/A
Question: I have been dealing with tinnitus. A chiropractor that I go to recommended I take Cortexi a hearing support formula to try to stop or lessen the ringing. Should I take this product? Thanks Rob
 


https://neuromedcare.com/cortexi-review/#:~:text=Call%20%2D%20Click%20Here-,What%20is%20Cortexi%3F,to%20%E2%80%9Csupport%20hearing%20health%E2%80%9D. 

Cortexi Review by a Tinnitus Specialist
As a tinnitus specialist, I'm troubled by how many of my patients have been burned by the Cortexi scam. Here's what you'll learn in this critical Cortexi review:
What is Cortexi?
What are the Cortexi ingredients?
Is Cortexi FDA-approved?
Does Cortexi work for hearing health?
What is the Cortexi Scam?
Cortexi Reviews and Complaints
The BBB Cortexi Review
Do Cortexi ear drops work for tinnitus?
Does Cortexi Work? An MD Cortexi Review
Does Cortexi work as a tinnitus treatment? The short answer is no. Cortexi drops are being heavily marketed as a natural treatment for tinnitus to millions of people. In this review, I’ll explain why I believe that Cortexi is not effective. There is an urgent need for input from a trusted medical authority on whether Cortexi works for tinnitus. This Cortexi review is designed to provide a valid medical perspective for those considering purchasing Cortexi drops for tinnitus.
My name is Dr. Hamid Djalilian. I am a professor in the Departments of Otolaryngology, Neurosurgery, and Biomedical Engineering and am the Director of Otology and Neurotology at the University of California, Irvine. I’ve published over 300 articles on the ear and hearing and I'm internationally recognized as a tinnitus specialist. I am a doctor who teaches other doctors about tinnitus. I think it’s fair to say that I speak with high medical authority on the issue of whether Cortexi works for tinnitus.

"Book the calI, it's worth it. I learned more about my tinnitus in the discovery call than from my doctor."
– Alice Lee

Ready for relief? NeuroMed can help.
Free Tinnitus Relief Call - Click Here
What is Cortexi?
Cortexi is an herbal supplement in liquid form that you ingest orally, either under the tongue or mixed in a drink. Cortexi drops are supposed to “support hearing health”.
What does “Support Hearing Health” or “Ear Health” mean?
This is because the Cortexi supplement is bound by FDA and FTC laws that strictly govern what they (and other hearing supplements) can say about health benefits. They're limited to descriptors like “promotes” or “helps” hearing health/ear health. They cannot say the Cortexi supplement is meant to “treat tinnitus” or “improve hearing health”. Other similar Cortexi supplement health claims include:
Promote hearing health
Support hearing function
Support brain function
Supports cognitive function
Support healthy hearing
Helps cognitive abilities
Supports auditory well-being
Fraudulent Cortexi Formula Claims
Despite strict laws against it, there are many fraudulent claims on the internet that the Cortexi formula treats tinnitus. If you look for Cortexi on Amazon, it is referred to as:
Cortexi Tinnitus Treatment
Cortexi Ear Drops for Tinnitus
Cortexi Tinnitus Relief
The Cortexi formula is classified as a dietary supplement and not a drug. The Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act (DSHEA) categorizes such supplements as foods rather than drugs, imposing restrictions on explicit health claims, especially for treating conditions like tinnitus. 
Consequently, Cortexi refrains from mentioning tinnitus on its official website and adheres to structure/function claims, highlighting its role to “support” hearing health/ear health, brain function, brain health, mental wellness, cognitive health, age related hearing loss, noise-induced hearing loss, and the like. These “health benefits” are within the legal constraints governing dietary supplements.
However, this has not stopped Cortexi drops from being advertised as a treatment for tinnitus.

Cortexi's Illegal Sales Strategy
Cortexi’s sales strategy uses a sophisticated affiliate marketing scheme to navigate around FDA regulatory constraints. While the company cannot make explicit health claims, affiliates associated with Cortexi employ strategic marketing tactics to promote the product as a “tinnitus treatment”, giving consumers exaggerated and misleading information far beyond supporting brain “ear health”. 
In addition to its claims about better hearing alone, Cortexi and affiliates go much further regarding “potential benefits”. You can find multiple claims about a variety of other benefits regarding brain function. For instance, Cortexi is supposed to improve cognitive function, memory, mental sharpness, brain fog, or other cognitive abilities. There are even claims that it improves longevity, fatigue the immune system, and libido.
This unethical approach allows Cortexi to advertise therapeutic benefits without violating explicit health claim regulations. At the same time, it creates a complex landscape for consumers to navigate when researching the product's efficacy.
What are the Cortexi formula ingredients?
There are over 20 Cortexi formula ingredients, but the official website promotes eight as being particularly effective:  Grape seed extract, Green Tea extract, Gymnema Sylvestre, Capsicum Annuum, Panax Ginseng, Astragalus, Chromium Picolinate, and Maca Root. None of these natural ingredients can claim to treat tinnitus symptoms. The rest of the ingredients are “essential nutrients”.
On the product label, Cortexi's natural ingredients are listed, but the exact levels of each ingredient is not. We’re only told that there is a total of 200mg of a “proprietary herbal blend” and around 2% of the daily value of chromium (0.7mcg). 
Table 1: Cortexi Ingredients, Health Claims, and Scientific Evidence.
| Ingredient | Claim | Scientific Evidence |
| Grape seed extract | Antioxidants protect the ear | No tinnitus evidence. |
| Green Tea | Improves blood flow to the ears | No tinnitus evidence. |
| Gymnema Sylvestre | Supports Hearing | No tinnitus evidence. |
| Capsicum Annuum | Supports healthy inflammation | No tinnitus evidence. |
| Panax Ginseng | Neuroprotective properties | Limited poor evidence. |
| Astragalus | Supports clear sounds | Limited poor evidence. |
| Chromium Picolinate | Supports auditory health | No tinnitus evidence. |
| Maca Root | Boost your energy | No tinnitus evidence. |
This Cortexi review could find no evidence that Cortexi ingredients work for tinnitus.
Scientific Evidence of Cortexi Supplement Effects on Tinnitus
I went through each of the eight featured Cortexi ingredients to see if there was any scientific proof that these ingredients help treat tinnitus. I used the PubMed database and the National Library of Medicine (PubMed) for this research. My findings are summarized in the table below. 
For the most part, the featured ingredients in Cortexi have ZERO preclinical or clinical evidence when it comes to the treatment of tinnitus. For that matter, we no idea of the effect of the Cortexi formula on “ear health” or “auditory health”, such as its impact on inner ear hair cells, noise induced hearing loss, inner ear blood flow, ear infections, auditory perception, etc.
I found limited evidence on astragalus for tinnitus, but there were major problems. The studies on astragalus were conducted in the context of acute acoustic trauma to the inner ear, the astragalus was delivered in the form of an injection, and the preponderance of data was generated on guinea pig subjects. 

I did find one human clinical trial of ginseng for tinnitus [1]. In this trial, there was a significant difference noted in the Tinnitus Handicap Index (THI) after 4 weeks of ginseng. However, there were several major problems with this study. 
First, the dose of ginseng used in this study was 3000mg. This is at least 15x higher than Cortexi’s ingredients. In the control group, they used 160mg of ginseng and in that group there was no effect. 160mg is closer to the amount of ginseng found in Cortexi drops. 
Second, even though the THI scores dropped in the high-dose ginseng group, the Visual Analog Score (VAS) score of subjective improvement did not change. In other words, the THI scores may have changed slightly, but the patients did not feel any better taking ginseng for tinnitus. 
Cortexi Dosage & How to Take Cortexi
The recommended Cortexi dosage is two droppers that you are instructed to take daily by mouth. This equates to 200mg of a “proprietary herbal blend” and 0.7 mcg of Chromium, according to the Cortexi label. Unfortunately, the amount of individual herbal supplements you take is impossible to determine because they’re listed together as a “proprietary blend”. 
Unlike prescription medications, supplement ingredients are not subject to strict FDA oversight. When FDA inspections do occur, they frequently reveal that supplement manufacturers neglect basic manufacturing standards, such as verifying the identity, purity, or composition of the final product. This lack of oversight highlights the variability and potential inconsistencies in dietary supplement formulations. 
I found no third-party verification of Cortexi ingredients, but some Cortexi reviews and complaints from the Better Business Bureau (BBB) suggest high variability in Cortexi ingredients. For instance, one consumer taking Cortexi noted: 
“When I received the new bottle, the product tasted totally different. That scared me and I called and emailed customer service. Ultimately I was informed that the ingredients in the new bottle may taste different?” 
This variability in Cortexi dosage and ingredients is highly concerning. Even if you know how to take Cortexi, you don’t know how much of its ingredients you are getting.
Cortexi Side Effects and Safety
There is very little information available on Cortexi side effects because it’s a dietary supplement and the regulatory reporting requirements are very lax. Some Cortexi supplement reviews by patients mention the following:
Upset stomach
Bloating
Nausea
Diarrhea
Headaches
Allergic reactions
I could not find any reports of serious adverse events on the FDA’s CFSAN Adverse Event Reporting System (CAERS) database. Note that this does not mean that adverse events have not occurred, just that Cortexi did not report any.
While not a side effect, one important warning is that numerous patients taking Cortexi report that the glass dropper was chipped or shatters. Obviously, ingesting broken glass can be a serious health hazard. 

