Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. I’m connecting you with Berlinda to help translate your needs. In the meantime, we believe that roughly translated you said, “I've been in the gym for 6 months and I still don't know what supplements I should take now. At the moment I'm taking creatine. Could they help me? Creatine is important to strength and muscle gains but works much better when you have all nutrient needs met. Therefore, we put a baseline program below that all exercisers need to support their goals and added CreatineMonohydrate to it. After using the baseline supplement program, and you want to take your fitness goals further, you can use our supplement screening tool to get the proper recommendations. Reach out to Berlinda (cc’d here) for more information, questions or help getting started.
Thanks again and have great evening. 


Level 1 – Performance/Size Plan with Creatine Monohydrate in Baseline
Click on product links for a brief product description including short video

ActiveMV - Multivitamin & Mineral Formula
 Take two (2) daily: one immediately following 1st large meal; one after final meal of the day.
Super Omega 3 
 Take 2 daily with meal 
Super Calcium (read all food labels for calcium content) 
 Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food/shake intake (using FirstString or other dotFIT protein powder regularly with a typical diet, calcium intake would probably meet calcium needs without supplementing)
 If needed take 1 with a meal
FirstString
 Take two (2) scoops 30-45 minutes before workout or use favorite dotFIT® bar for convenience.
 Take two (2) scoops 20-30 minutes after post workout AminoFormula dose.
 Use anytime throughout the day as a supplement to a meal or by itself mixed with desired ingredients to add protein/calories as needed to daily requirements.
 Be sure to ingest approximately 1 gram (g) of protein per pound of lean body mass (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 4-5 times daily along with the pre/post shakes (the pre/post shakes combined generally supply 50-60 g of the daily protein requirement).
CreatineMonohydrate Loading & Maintenance Strategy 
 Mix 1 scoop (5gms) with 4-8oz of favorite fluid/shake and take 4 times daily with a protein and/or carbohydrate containing meal/drink for first 5 days. Thereafter take 1-scoop once daily to maintain stores. To help maximize creatine uptake, split doses throughout the day with meals/drinks containing protein and/or carbohydrate
 Training days: take 1-scoop before or after your workout with meals/drinks. May mix with your pre & post training formula
 Non-training days* take 1-scoop with and meal or shake 

*May substitute favorite dotFIT Nutrition High Protein Bar based on venue convenience
 


From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Saturday, June 8, 2024 7:27 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Supplements
Question: Llevo 6 meses en el gimnasio y aun nose que suplementos debo tomar ahora por el momento estoy tomando creatina me podrían ayudar 
 

