Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. Protein powders (PP) such as WheySmooth, FirstString, BestPlantProtein, etc., are complete proteins containing all 20 amino acids, also known as complete intact proteins. These powders are a convenient economical healthy protein source to make sure you consume the active person’s recommended amount daily, which is 1gm/LB of Lean body mass (LBM) split throughout the day – i.e., added as necessary into daily meal planning. PP are also used as a pre and post workout supplement for added recovery, which also adds to daily intake (below is a slide that shows how PP are often used).
AminoFormula (AF) contains only the 8 amino acids(AA) in free form and are the only ones involved in triggering/signaling muscle protein synthesis (MPS), making them the highly anabolic component of an intact protein. By separating these 8 AA, you can deliver them straight to the muscles quickly and get a high anabolic response (beyond protein) with very low calories, and therefore is used in conjunction with PP or by itself before and after workouts or to simply complement a lower protein diet. I placed the common way people use the AF in a baseline dietary support program that includes the PP below. Additionally, the slide at the bottom, shows how and who would use AF.
Hope this all helps. If you have any more questions, reach out to Berlinda (cc’d) here.
Thanks again and have a great day.
AminoFormula in Baseline to Control Body Composition – No Stacking
General Health, Recovery, Weight Control and Performance Supplement Program with AminoFormula
Click on product links for a brief product description including short video
Daily:
dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender. If 50yrs or older use Over50 unless noted below; if female under 50 use Women’s; Males and very active females (competitive training protocols) under 50 use 2-Active, with both genders continuing use till 65yrs if still training competitively at which time every person will use Over50; children under 12yr use Kids; children 12-17yr use 1-Active); Adult Vegans, use VeganMV; of use the Alln1 SuperBlendTM
Take as directed with meals
WheySmooth or other favorite dotFIT protein mix (based on caloric allotment for goal)
Use as directed to make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of LBM (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 3-5 times daily
Can be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired supporting contents) to shore up total daily protein needs
As needed:
Super Calcium (read all food labels for calcium content including dotFIT protein shakes)*
Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food/shake intake
Females take 1 or 2 daily with meals; if you need to take 2, take one with AM meal and the 2nd with PM meal; Males take 1 only if necessary
Super Omega 3 
Take 1-2 daily with meal if not consuming 8-16oz/wk fatty fish (take 1 if >8oz/wk but <16; 2 if ≤8oz); not necessary if consuming ≥16oz/wk unless for athletic recovery purposes, then increase as directed
*All food labels including Protein Powders must contain calcium levels by serving so always check
Workout Days:
AminoFormula (AF) (or both scoops throughout workout so it’s finished at end of activity) –count as 20-40gms protein
Take ½-1scoop ~10 minutes before and may continue to drink during first 20 minutes of workout (or to midpoint)
Take ½-1scoop immediately following workout
Or use both scoops and start ingesting 10min before workout and consume at a pace so it’s finished at end of activity



    


 

From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Monday, November 4, 2024 10:07 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Supplements
Question: What is the difference between a Protein Powder and AminoFormula - Blue Raspberry? 
 

