Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. your message is difficult to completely decipher but it looks like you are asking how long after the expiration date is the protein still ok to consume. As long as it has not been left open for extended periods where something may have entered the container you are fine to use the protein as directed for many months to years after the expiration/best buy date. See below for more on expiration dates.
Have a great 4th!!!

More Info
The “Expiration Dates” are basically a “best sold by date” with the product still at full potency. All dates are 2-years after production, only because you don’t need more than that based on inventory turnover. But the product is still fine (safe and effective) for at least another 2years after the date in case you have not used it in a while, and kept it sealed.

The definition of an expiration date for nutritional products such as ours, is that the product must be within 10% of label claim of each ingredient on the last day, meaning it’s still at declared potency 2years following production. This is only because they were tested at that milestone, and all is still perfect. Further, generally no one carries more than a few months of inventory and the next lot has a new date that starts all over. Therefore, our pills and powders have a 2yr expiration, and are still safe and effective to use well after the date because the only issue might be that they are a little less potent than when manufactured, but that is something that would only happen years after the published date. In the case of expired nutrition bars, the product is still safe and effective after the date but not as fresh tasting and therefore we recommend you replace it with a new lot because taste matters.



From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Thursday, July 4, 2024 5:36 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: N/A
Question: Have whey smooth maximize energy, accelerate recovery, after protein How long unopened container after expiration date is it still good to use Please do not market to buy more Honest answer 
 

