Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. Generally you would not want to mix NO7Rage and ExtremeCreatineXXXL+  together, but only because in some people it might be too much beta-alanine at one time if you were taking full dosages at once (leads to a harmless tingling sensation). However, using NO7Rage and ExtremeCreatineXXXL+ together in a complete program is common and therefore, I placed the protocol below within a baseline fitness program to that will enhance your total health and fitness results.
Thanks again and have great day.

NO7Rage & ExtremeCreatineXXXL (ECr) Performance & Size Supplement Plan in Baseline
Click on product links for a brief product description including short video

ActiveMV - Multivitamin & Mineral Formula (or use Alln1 SuperBlendTM as directed)
Take two (2) daily: one (1) immediately following first large meal and one (1) after final meal of the day.
SuperOmega-3
Take 1-2 daily with meal if not consuming 8-16oz/wk fatty fish (take 1 if >8oz/wk but <16; 2 if ≤8oz); not necessary if consuming ≥16oz/wk unless for athletic recovery purposes, then increase as directed
FirstString (or WheySmooth depending on daily calorie allotment)
 Take two (2) scoops 30-45 minutes before workout or use favorite dotFIT® bar for convenience.
 Take two (2) scoops immediately post workout
 Use anytime in the day as a supplement to a meal or by itself mixed with desired ingredients to add protein/calories as needed to daily requirements.
 Be sure to ingest approximately 1 gram (g) of protein per pound of lean body mass (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 4-5 times daily along with the pre/post shakes (the pre/post shakes combined generally supply 50-60 g of the daily protein requirement).  

Begin ExtremeCreatineXXXL (ECr) at 2nd Week
Take 2-scoops daily. Always take with some protein and/or carbs but within allotted calories based on body composition goal.
On training days: take one (1) scoop before training with pre-workout full meal (generally 2-3 hours pre-workout). If not possible based on early training, take with pre-workout shake unless using NO7Rage before workout, then take ECr dose later in the day. Take remaining dose (one scoop) any time with meal or shake to help evenly spread total creatine intake throughout the day.
On non-training days: take one (1) scoop with morning meal or shake and one (1) scoop with evening meal or shake.
Add NO7Rage at 3rd week (workout days only b/c, ECr daily maintains Cr & BA saturation) 
Take 1.5-2.5 scoops depending on weight (if caffeine sensitive, start lower dose and increase to proper weight dose if not uncomfortably affected by caffeine) approximately 10 minutes before workout. See directions on label for weight dosages.



 

From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Thursday, April 11, 2024 8:50 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Supplements
Question: Hi, Can you mix NO7 Rage3 and Extreme CreatineXXXL together
 

