Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. For muscle gain and performance, FirstString (FS) is the right protein powder you would use because of it’s macronutrient makeup (protein, fats and carb ratio). For muscle gain goals, most importantly make sure you get the right amount of protein, which is 1gm/LB/of lean body mass (LBM) split throughout the day. Secondarily, taking one of your protein shakes (that contain carbohydrates such as FS) before and after the workout helps create more workout energy and enhances recovery. But if for some reason you can’t take the pre-workout shake, just use your FS to make sure you get the total daily protein needs, and after the workout when possible. See below for a baseline dietary support program that all active people would use to keep active throughout a lifespan. After using the baseline supplement program, and you want to take your fitness goals further, you can use our supplement screening tool to get the proper recommendations. Reach out to one of our phone coaches (Berlinda is cc’d here) for more information or any questions.
Thanks again and have a great weekend.


Baseline Health, Recovery, Muscle Gain and Performance Supplement Program
Click on product links for a brief product description including short video
Daily:
dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender If 50yrs or older use Over50 unless noted below; if female under 50 use Women’s; Males and very active females (competitive training protocols) under 50 use 2-Active, with both genders continuing use till 65yrs if still training competitively at which time every person will use Over50; children under 12yr use Kids; children 12-17yr use 1-Active). Vegans use 1-Vegan
Take as directed with meals
Daily as needed:
FirstString
Use as directed to make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of LBM (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 5 times daily
Can be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired supporting contents) to shore up total daily protein needs
SuperOmega-3
Take 1-2 daily with meal if not consuming 8-16oz/wk fatty fish (take 1 if >8oz/wk but <16; 2 if ≤8oz); not necessary if consuming ≥16oz/wk unless for athletic recovery purposes
Workout days
FirstString (FS)* - use as directed to get:
25gm/protein 30-40min before workout & repeat same dose immediately post exercise
*May substitute favorite dotFIT Nutrition High Protein Bar based on venue convenience

Ideal mealtimes to maximize performance (keep meals within calories conducive to body composition goal)
Meal Timings 
As possible eat every 4-hours
Larger pre-training/event meal 2-3Hr before training
Larger post meal ~30-60min after last post workout supplement
Early morning training
Eat a large pre-training type meal the night before
Consume only the pre-workout snack/shake (FS) before training (as shown above) & follow workout day supplement schedule above
Tournament play (multiple games)
<1.5Hr break: bars and hydration/electrolyte recovery drink
1.5-2.5Hr: small pre-training-type meal
>2.5Hr: normal pre-training meal
Fluid Recommendations* 
16 oz 2Hr before activity (extra 8-16 oz 1hr before on hot days)
4-8 oz every 20 minutes during activity
20 oz for every pound of weight loss post-activity
*If necessary (extended training sessions) use electrolyte formula and water as directed  


From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Friday, August 16, 2024 11:20 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Muscle Gain
Question: Hello my name is Liz Perez. I’m planning on taking “first string” my goal is to gain muscle mass. I do a lot of calisthenics and interval training. What else can I take with that to help me. Also do I have to take the before workout serving how it recommends? 
 

