Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. Because your client was not consuming much fiber previously, just like adding any amount of fiber, the Alln1 SuperBlendTM might affect people like her this way. Generally, it goes away in a few weeks but in roughly in 10-15% of users it may not. Therefore, we updated the product with a milder fiber, and it fixes the problem for most anyone. There will always be people that can’t use some formulas, just like they can’t consume some foods, but it will be very rare with this Alln1 SuperBlendTM. The new product will start shipping by the 3rd week this month, but I’m cc’ing Chad here to send you the updated one now so you can give it at no charge to your client, because you 
do not want to let her give up on increasing her fiber intake. In the meantime, with the old/current formula she can just use half a dose daily (before bed, or during the day with something like WheySmooth) until she gets the new one started. Based on our extended focus groups, we know this new formula solves most all GI/fiber issues. See the note below to staff and partner decision makers that explains, and what we will eventually send out as needed to all, including an announcement.
Please give Chad your shipping address for the free new product. 
Thanks again and keep us updated. 

Updated Formula
The updated formula with the new fiber in the Alln1 SuperBlendTM to eliminate any gastrointestinal (GI) issues is now here. I’m sending it to you guys, so you have it first! We will start shipping from the warehouse to all partners/accounts starting around mid-February when the 1st batch is sold out. Jill is cc’d here to make sure you all get your new jug.
 
The only difference is the prebiotic/fiber ingredient (formerly organic inulin from agave, now Acacia), and believe it or not, it gave it a significant flavor improvement, which we thought impossible with all the natural ingredients it contains. The Acacia fiber is very gentle but just as effective in repopulating your gut with good bacteria and helping repair a “leaking gut. Therefore, we don’t need anyone to start with ½ scoop/daily. They can now start with a full if desired. However, because many people enjoy taking half in the morning and half later in the day to help control appetite or mix with their pre-workout/AminoFormula, we put in an adult half-serving size scoop, so that 1-serving is now 2-scoops, but it is still a 1-month supply (see new directions). Mindful that 1-scoop now would be a full dose for 12-18yr olds (and by the way, every kid should be on it to manage their stress in this whacked out world they get constantly distracting in😊).
 
Moreover, for the 10-15% of people that had any GI discomfort from using before, that issue has been eliminated for probably anyone. The reason we know this is because we rounded up ~15 people that got gaseous when they used the previous formula and made them the testers as we altered fibers. Everyone one of them took full scoops of this final product for a full month and never had any issues and loved it, so we knew we hit the homerun.
Good timing as word is spreading, and now everyone can be loving it as most of us do.
 

 


From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Monday, February 5, 2024 12:04 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Contact Us


 
Name: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Phone: [PHONE]
Message: My Client is 42 YO Female looking to drop about 10 pounds. I had her start the Super Blend. When she takes it alone her guts feel fine until she eats solid food then she becomes very gassy. She will have been on it for 30 days this week. I had her alternate 1/2 scoop days with full scoop days when the problem started. she had virtually no vegetables or fiber in her diet when we first started working together. Most recently I had her switch to taking it in the evening. Is there any other ideas about how to help her continue taking the sup? Otherwise she is not happy with the gassy feelings she has every time she eats after taking it and will discontinue use when this canister is finished. Thank you for your help Gina VanLoon
 

