
Hi [CUSTOMER],
There is a lot of questions in your requests below. Many questions about the client’s goals, budget, training experience, etc., we would ask before setting up a program.
You can make it simple, and use the supplement screening tool that generally gives a triplicate of choice. If you use the dotFIT program, it is designed to give you the correct supplement program based on the questionnaire. If you look back to the seminars we have done, you will see the packages available with the different supps based on levels 1-3. Otherwise, on the the dotFIT homepage, there are the 3 simple bundles (performance, weight loss and Playspan®) you can view and use that recommendation for anyone. 
Finally, it may be best and certainly more efficient to get on a call to discuss all options and to answer all questions. If you would like to get on a call, send an email to [EMAIL] and Jill (cc’d here) will set a time to discuss next week. In the meantime, I attached some PDF versions of our seminars for different club groups that contain the packages they sell for the goals you mentioned (mindful that performance and muscle gain packages are interchangeable). This may be helpful. The attached PDF for our custom club group (part 3 of body comp) has a bodybuilding supplement program towards the end, which encompasses many of the combined supplements, since this group of athletes needs a full regime for both muscle and bodyfat reduction during contest prep.
But again, you can set up a call to discuss as necessary.
Thanks for your hard work.


From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Friday, March 15, 2024 11:51 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Supplements
Question: Good morning. First of all thank you for always responding to my questions in a timely manner. I know a good amount about supplements but I have been second guessing myself because I hear different opinions from other fitness professionals. I printed out the Quick Reference Guide but I wanted to ask specifically how to approach supplements for weight loss clients and weight gain clients. What I am looking for is your #1 recommendation for both, and then backup recommendations in case my clients dont want to take certain sups. For muscle gain there is CreatineXXXl, CreatineMono, Aminos, NO7, Recover&Build, Muscle Defender, WorkoutExtreme, and WheySmooth, Pre/Post,First String. Again, depending on who I ask I get a different answer. I have a client that is trying to put on as much muscle as possible. Which combination of supplements do you recommend? Should he just stick with the 'Muscle Stack 1' or 2? If he doesnt want to take both creatines or pre workout, what do you suggest? Should he also do take the muscle defender? He doesnt want to take a bunch of stuff. Also, which protein is best for him? Thank you again.
 

