Hi again Brandley,
The previous email we sent contains the pre-workout product you are requesting. I pasted it below here as well.
Thanks again and have a great weekend.

Hi [NAME],
Thanks for contacting us. the dotFIT CreatineMonohydrate is just creatine monohydrate (CM). NO7Rage3 has the same CM with other ingredients that improve training energy (stimulant) and also incrementally delay fatigue. 
Both products will give you muscles more energy, but using the NO7 as your creatine source you also get much more to enhance the workout and recovery. I placed a baseline performance nutrition below that adds NO7RAGE to the protocol.
NO7RAGE3  as a Standalone Product in Baseline
Click on product links for a brief product description including short video 

Performance/Size Supplement Plan With NO7 Rage to Achieve & Maintain Cr & Beta-alanine Effective Levels
Active Multivitamin Mineral Formula (or use the Alln1 SuperBlendTM and take as directed)
Take two (2) daily: one immediately following first large meal and one following the final meal of the day
SuperOmega-3
Take 1-2 daily with meal if not consuming 8-16oz/wk fatty fish (take 1 if >8oz/wk but <16; 2 if ≤8oz); not necessary if consuming ≥16oz/wk unless for athletic recovery purposes
FirstString (or WheySmooth depending on daily calorie allotment)
Take two (2) scoops 30-45 minutes before workout or use favorite dotFIT® bar for convenience
Take two (2) scoops 20-30 immediately post workout
Use anytime throughout the day as a supplement to a meal or by itself mixed with desired ingredients to add protein/calories as needed to meet daily needs.
Be sure to ingest ~1 gram of protein per pound of LBM (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including food. Ideally, divide protein into 4-5 meals/day along with pre/post shakes (the pre/post combined generally supply ~50 grams of daily protein goal)  
NO7Rage3
Daily (to maintain BA & Cr levels) take 1.5 to 2.5 scoops (depending on body weight -see label instructions). Take approximately 10 minutes before workout and continue to consume during workout). See directions on label for weight dosages.
Non-training days, take 1 serving anytime of the day


