Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. According to the FDA related website: “although rare, myasthenia gravis is an autoimmune condition where proteins in the blood called antibodies attack your muscles so that they receive less nerve signaling and become weak. This muscle weakness tends to get worse after activity but improves after resting. Certain muscles of the body are more likely to be affected by this condition, including the muscles that control the eyes, eyelids, facial expressions, chewing, talking, and swallowing.” 

Anyone of the dotFIT proteins would be fine to use depending on preference/tastes or lifestyle factors such as “all natural”, vegan or general. If she is trying to lose weight, you might offer the LeanMR meal replacement program that uses the LeanMR for 2 of her 4 meals daily. I placed it below. Otherwise, choose any of our proteins based on preference as they all have the highest biological value and lactose free. WheySmooth (WS), All-Natural WheySmooth (ANWS) and the all-natural/vegan BestPlantProtein (BPP) are all high protein in low calories, so pick as desired (WS is most popular unless you are vegan then use the BPP), and alter as desired (see recipe section).
Thanks again and have a great evening.



 Bodyfat/Weight Loss with Maintenance and Health Supplement Program (LeanMR meal replacement program)
Click on links for brief product descriptions including short video
Daily:
dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender and follow label directions. If 50yrs or older use Over50 unless noted below; if female under 50 use Women’s; Males and very active females (competitive training protocols) under 50 use 2-Active, with both genders continuing use till 65yrs if still training competitively at which time every person will use Over50; children under 12yr use Kids; children 12-17yr use 1-Active. Vegans use 1-Vegan. 
LeanMR other favorite dotFIT protein mix
Use as directed within daily meal planning (see below) and to make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of lean body mass (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources divided 4-5 times daily
Can also be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired supporting contents) to shore up total daily protein needs
As needed
Super Calcium 
Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food intake (read all food labels for calcium content including protein mixes)
Females take 1 or 2 daily with meals; if you need to take 2, take one with AM meal and the 2nd with PM meal; Males take 1 only if necessary
SuperOmega 3 
Take 1-2 daily with meal if not consuming 8-16oz/wk fatty fish (take 1 if >8oz/wk but <16; 2 if ≤8oz); not necessary if consuming ≥16oz/wk unless for athletic recovery purposes, then increase as directed

Meal Replacement Integration 
Weight loss phase: 
Meal Replacements (MRs) generally supply two small meals a day and allow freedom of choice from traditional foods for the remaining allotted foods/calories. Therefore, use as two small meals within any calorie restricted meal plan of 4-5 meals since it's been shown that frequent small meals are better for weight loss than fewer larger ones especially as it relates to satiety, preservation of lean body mass (LBM) and energy levels
Get LeanMR recipes here: https://www.dotfit.com/category-cid-1868.html 
Maintenance phase 
Continue to consume 4-5 small meals daily within caloric allotment that include 2 MRs for convenience and to help ensure overall diet quality while reducing food costs.
You can go to our recipe section on the dotFIT website to get recipes with meal preparation instructions including meal replacement recipes

From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Monday, April 29, 2024 3:02 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Weight Loss
Question: I have a client with myasthenia gravis. What protein shake would be good for her? She is looking to lose weight. 
 

