Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. We do not have a specific Indian cuisine menus. However, you (or your clients) can input any foods you like into the menus in the dotFIT program, or create your own from scratch and save them. I’m connecting you here with Berlinda in case you need help in creating these menus. Here is a link to 34 Indian food recipes. Below are some FAQs that may be helpful.
Thanks again and have great day.

FAQs and tutorial links 
Q: Do the menus ever change?
A: The Reference menus written by our dieticians for each caloric goal does not change until the user changes it as they desire. They are all designed to be individually customized since everyone eats differently. However, they can save all their customized foods and menus to use anytime they like. Below are 2 FAQs you may fine helpful. Here is a link to logging food and menu customization food logging tutorial.

Q: Is there a way to get new reference menus each week for my clients or are they always going to be the same?
A: Reference menus will remain the same (we continue to add new ones or replace them overtime) as they must be signed off on by our dieticians because that allows you to use the program in your scope of practice. And everyone is always going to change something to their liking, which is why they are 100% customizable, simple to execute and can be saved. The reference menus are accurately designed for macronutrient structures, health, calories, etc., matched to the clients goals. Alterations should only be done by you and the person consuming the foods. Here is the link for a complete program tutorial that will take you through all aspects of using the dotFIT program including menu creation and customization. Additionally, your client can enter any custom food they like, or any food not in the database. We also have complete tutorials on how to enter “custom foods”. Here is a link to the food logging tutorial with the part entering a custom food/drink) starting at ~1min and 30seconds into the video. 

Menus in the program and ungated menus for the public.
The menus in the dotFIT program can all be customized and saved for individual clients and therefore the reference menus are simply static examples. The ungated menus on the site (click here) for anyone to view are simply examples to the public. But again, once you are in the program, all menus can be changed as desired and kept accurate for the goal. See below for related FAQs and reach back out for a live tour for more info, especially if you are one of our certified trainers.

Below are the sample menus in the dotFIT program with each having all different calorie targets based on your input/goal and can all be customized as desired.



From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Monday, November 18, 2024 11:09 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Diets
Question: We have a large population of Indian individuals in our area that eat a lot of curries and other foods along those lines. Is there a way we can get some meal plans that are more Indian food friendly related?
 

