Neal/Kat,

Neal, I know you answered this question in detail as an “experts” question, previously and I received a question as well on it this weekend so I thought I would dig into it deeper with Kalpesh.

From Kalpesh, our chemist/pharmacist for complex formulas. 


Are your multivitamins methylated?

Only B9 and B12 are available in the market in their methylated forms
“Methylated forms are better absorbed by the body.  Non-Methylated forms need to get activated and converted into a methylated form by the body to be effective.” – Kalpesh’s definition
ActiveMV and Over50MV both use 2 forms of B12 (cyanocobalamin and methylcobalamin)
WomensMV uses methylcobalamin as form of B12
Alln1 SuperBlend uses both B9/Folate (calcium L-5-methyltetrahydrofolate) and B12 (methylcobalamin) in the methylated forms


The guy that emailed me thought that every vitamin could be methylated so that was a big part of his confusion/question.  Anyway, use as you see fit.

Are all your vitamins methylated vitamins? How would I be able to tell?
Hi [NAME],
Thanks for contacting us. Your question is vague, in the fact that not all vitamins should contain a methyl donor to be effective (actually it is a problem for some). What you want in any vitamin, is an absorbable form (i.e., a form that is already prepared as the body would prepare it once extracted from a food source). All our vitamins (and minerals) are in a pre-formed structure to allow the body proper “functional absorption” (active at the target tissue), which is better than bioavailable absorption. All our labels have the form listed. Do not be fooled that all vitamins need a methyl group to be effective. In all our products, if it needs a methyl group, it will be part of it and listed on the label such as B12 or Folate in our Alln1 SuperBlendTM. If you would like to talk to a chemist further, Chad (VP of Product Development) is cc’d here to help.
Thanks again and have a great night.
What is a ‘Methylated’ Nutrient?
A methylated nutrient is a compound attached to a molecule made up of one carbon and three hydrogens, known as a “methyl group” (CH3).
Common methylated nutrients include:
S-adenosylmethionine (SAMe)
L-5-methyltetrahydrofolate, or L-5-MTHF (an “active” form of folate, also known as just L-methylfolate)
Methylcobalamin (an “active” form of vitamin B12)
Trimethylglycine (TMG or Betaine)
Inositol
Choline
Phosphatidylcholine
You can see the word “methyl” within the name of some of these nutrients. In these cases, methylated nutrients are easy to identify. But in other cases, like choline or inositol, you may not realize they are methylated!




