Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. Someone of your size trying to gain muscle mass would need to consume ~250caliries/day over their maintenance calories and adjust accordingly to continue to your final body composition goal while supplementing appropriately (see below for starting supplement program). The dotFIT program contains all your healthy muscle gain needs. Once in the program, simply choose the goal as Muscle gain and input your desired lean body mass (LBM) gain. Using the dotFIT program (it is free and if you have a trainer, you can use it together) you will have all your muscle gain needs including a personalized diet and exercise program as needed. The rate of muscle gain depends on many variables such as age, training experience (the younger and less experienced the faster the gains), exercise program, nutrition including supplementation, genetics, etc. All of which the dotFIT program can guide you through in reaching your personal goal (see below to get started). I have cc’d Berlinda here again to connect with you in case you need more information or have questions.
Thanks again and have a great day.

More Muscle gain information
Everything you need to gain healthy weight/muscle is contained in the dotFIT program (free of charge), which will take you only a few minutes to get your answers including necessary calories based on your size, goal and activity level. Every week when you update your measurements/weight or bodyfat, the program will automatically tell you what to do to stay on goal. We placed a baseline dietary support program below that all our athletes start with to make sure you recover properly from your muscle gain training daily activities and meet your nutrient and calorie needs. The program below including meal timing, will feed your muscle while controlling bodyfat, and also contains your pre & post workout protein/carb supplement, critical to your recovery. After using the baseline supplement program below, and you want to take your fitness goals further, you can use our supplement screening tool to get the proper recommendations.

 Baseline Health, Recovery, Muscle Gain and Performance Supplement Program
Click on product links for a brief product description including short video
Daily:
dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender If 50yrs or older use Over50 unless noted below; if female under 50 use Women’s; Males and very active females (competitive training protocols) under 50 use 2-Active, with both genders continuing use till 65yrs if still training competitively at which time every person will use Over50; children under 12yr use Kids; children 12-17yr use 1-Active). Vegans use 1-Vegan
Take as directed with meals
Daily as needed:
FirstString
Use as directed to make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of LBM (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 5 times daily
Can be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired supporting contents) to shore up total daily protein needs
SuperCalcium (read all food and shake labels) (using FirstString or other dotFIT protein powder regularly with other typical diet calcium intake would probably meet calcium needs without supplementing)
Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food/shake intake
Females take 1 or 2 daily with meals; if you need to take 2, take one with AM meal and the 2nd with PM meal; Males take 1 only if necessary
SuperOmega-3
Take 1-2 daily with meal if not consuming 8-16oz/wk fatty fish (take 1 if >8oz/wk but <16; 2 if ≤8oz); not necessary if consuming ≥16oz/wk unless for athletic recovery purposes
Workout days
FirstString* - use as directed to get:
25-35gm/protein 30-40min before workout & repeat same dose immediately post exercise
*May substitute favorite dotFIT Nutrition High Protein Bar based on venue convenience
Ideal mealtimes to maximize performance (keep meals within calories conducive to body composition goal)
Meal Timings 
As possible eat every 4-hours
Larger pre-training/event meal 2-3Hr before training
Larger post meal ~30-60min after last post workout supplement
Early morning training
Eat a large pre-training type meal the night before
Consume only the pre-workout snack/shake before training (as shown above) & follow workout day supplement schedule above
Tournament play (multiple games)
<1.5Hr break: bars and hydration/electrolyte recovery drink
1.5-2.5Hr: small pre-training-type meal
>2.5Hr: normal pre-training meal
Fluid Recommendations* 
16 oz 2Hr before activity (extra 8-16 oz 1hr before on hot days)
4-8 oz every 20 minutes during activity
20 oz for every pound of weight loss post-activity
*If necessary (extended training sessions) use electrolyte formula and water as directed; may mix with AminoFormula

From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Monday, May 20, 2024 7:48 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Muscle Gain
Question: i’m new to fitness and new to the bulk “diet” i’m 5’3 & the last time i weighed my self (last wednesday 5/15) i was 139. my fitness goals are to have bigger glutes & quads while also having a toned upper body (i dont want a bulky upper body) i’m not sure how to bulk, i’ve written out a food log & gotten up to 1622 calories with 126 grams of protein. i know there’s a difference between maintenance calories and bulk calories, but that’s where i get lost, how many calories do i need to be eating a day to gain more muscle mass?(and what are some dinner meal plans) ive gotten breakfast & lunch planes but dinner is where im stuck especially since that’s when im in the gym. i want to bulk but not feel insanely bloated from consuming more calories than i’m used to. what are some tricks to help me add calories/protein AND, burn calories in the gym (i try to do 10 min intervals on the stair master every workout to burn some extra but if there’s some more tips lmk, but i dont run lol!) 
 

