Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. We have placed a baseline dietary support program below that also contains CreatineMonohydrate that all our athletes start with to make sure you recover properly from your muscle gain training, daily activities and to meet your nutrient and calorie needs. The program below including meal timing and muscle gain instructions, will feed your muscle while controlling bodyfat, and also contains your pre & post workout protein/carb supplement, critical to your recovery. After using the baseline supplement program below, and you want to take your fitness goals further, you can use our supplement screening tool to get the proper recommendations. Reach out to one of our phone coaches (Berlinda is cc’d here) for more information, questions or help getting started.
Thanks again and have a great day.

Performance/Size Plan & Instructions with Creatine Monohydrate in Baseline (under 175LBS)
Click on product links for a brief product description including short video
ActiveMV - Multivitamin & Mineral Formula
 Take two (2) daily: one immediately following 1st large meal; one after final meal of the day.
Super Omega 3 
 Take 2 daily with meal 
Super Calcium (read all food labels for calcium content) 
 Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food/shake intake (using FirstString or other dotFIT protein powder regularly with a typical diet, calcium intake would probably meet calcium needs without supplementing)
 If needed take 1 with a meal
FirstString
 Take two (2) scoops 30-45 minutes before workout or use favorite dotFIT® bar for convenience.
 Take two (2) scoops 20-30 minutes after post workout AminoFormula dose.
 Use anytime throughout the day as a supplement to a meal or by itself mixed with desired ingredients to add protein/calories as needed to daily requirements.
 Be sure to ingest approximately 1 gram (g) of protein per pound of lean body mass (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 4-5 times daily along with the pre/post shakes (the pre/post shakes combined generally supply 50-60 g of the daily protein requirement).
CreatineMonohydrate Loading & Maintenance Strategy 
 Mix 1 scoop (5gms) with 4-8oz of favorite fluid/shake and take 4 times daily with a protein and/or carbohydrate containing meal/drink for first 5 days. Thereafter take 1-scoop once daily to maintain stores. To help maximize creatine uptake, split doses throughout the day with meals/drinks containing protein and/or carbohydrate
 Training days: take 1-scoop after before or after your workout with meals/drinks. May mix with your pre & post training formula
 Non-training days* take 1-scoop with meal or shake 
*May substitute favorite dotFIT Nutrition High Protein Bar based on venue convenience

Ideal mealtimes to maximize performance/muscle gain (keep meals within calories conducive to body composition goal)
Meal Timings 
 As possible eat every 4-hours
 Larger pre-training/event meal 2-3Hr before training
 Larger post meal ~30-60min after last post workout supplement
Early morning training
 Eat a large pre-training type meal the night before
 Consume only the pre-workout snack/shake before training (as shown above) & follow workout day supplement schedule above
Tournament play (multiple games)
 <1.5Hr break: bars and hydration/electrolyte recovery drink
 1.5-2.5Hr: small pre-training-type meal
 >2.5Hr: normal pre-training meal
Fluid Recommendations* 
 16 oz 2Hr before activity (extra 8-16 oz 1hr before on hot days)
 4-8 oz every 20 minutes during activity
 20 oz for every pound of weight loss post-activity
*If necessary (extended training sessions) use electrolyte formula and water as directed; may mix with AminoFormula
Muscle gain instructions
Total daily calorie intake should be moderately above current expenditure (dotFIT program will automatically create the right menus and choose the “Athletic Menu” to use as a guideline). If weight gain does not occur as described, you may add roughly 100 to 250 calories to your daily total (based on body size) consisting of equal amounts of carbohydrates and protein and moderate fat. For example, 20 g protein, 20 g carbohydrate, 10 g fat equaling 250 calories. If preferred, use your shakes or snacks to supply extra calories. Following the addition of extra calories, if after one week weight gain does not occur, repeat the above process*. All this is automatically taken care of using your dotFIT program.
*If body fat or overall weight increases undesirably, slightly reduce daily caloric intake or add a preferred form of aerobic exercise until you achieve your desired weight trend.


From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Wednesday, September 25, 2024 9:29 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Contact Us


 
Name: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Phone: [PHONE]
Message: Hello , Hope you are doing well. I was wondering if I could get some help. I have never before taken any supplements. I am a life time athlete I used to do martial arts. I am back in the gym again now. My goal is to lose my belly fat and gain muscle mass. I have social media pages that I am growing and I want to share my progress. The goal is to promote your product while I am at it. My workouts and alot of cardio, crossfit style workouts I also have started wheights the past month and a half. I have gained 2 inches of Bicep muscles in this month and a half and over all gained 10 pounds of muscle. I would like help when it comes to what I should take? I burn Daily in move calories around 2800-3500 calories. thank you for your time. Very Respectfully, Riali Martin
 

