Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. 3, 4 or 5 days can work if you divide up the body parts, so they are rested properly. For example, 4 days a week: day 1 upper body; day 2 lower body including core work and repeat within 1week. If you want to get serious and have the time, divide the body parts up in 3 days, rest on day 4, and start over again (3 days on 1 day off). The older we get, it is generally agreed that we should keep our reps up, such as 10-15 reps/set. Every once in while you can go heavier such as 6-10reps.
Most importantly, will be your nutrition, so I placed a baseline dietary support program below that includes CreatineMonohydrate and mealtimes along with muscle gain instructions. After using the baseline supplement program below, and you want to take your fitness goals further, you can use our supplement screening tool to get the proper recommendations. Reach out to one of our phone coaches (Berlinda is cc’d here) for more information, questions or help getting started.
Thanks again and have a great day.

Performance/Size Plan & Instructions with Creatine Monohydrate in Baseline
Click on product links for a brief product description including short video
ActiveMV - Multivitamin & Mineral Formula
 Take two (2) daily: one immediately following 1st large meal; one after final meal of the day.
Super Omega 3 
 Take 2 daily with meal 
Super Calcium (read all food labels for calcium content) 
 Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food/shake intake (using FirstString or other dotFIT protein powder regularly with a typical diet, calcium intake would probably meet calcium needs without supplementing)
 If needed take 1 with a meal
FirstString
 Take two (2) scoops 30-45 minutes before workout or use favorite dotFIT® bar for convenience.
 Take two (2) scoops 20-30 minutes after post workout AminoFormula dose.
 Use anytime throughout the day as a supplement to a meal or by itself mixed with desired ingredients to add protein/calories as needed to daily requirements.
 Be sure to ingest approximately 1 gram (g) of protein per pound of lean body mass (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 4-5 times daily along with the pre/post shakes (the pre/post shakes combined generally supply 50-60 g of the daily protein requirement).
CreatineMonohydrate Loading & Maintenance Strategy 
 Mix 1 scoop (5gms) with 4-8oz of favorite fluid/shake and take 4 times daily with a protein and/or carbohydrate containing meal/drink for first 5 days. Thereafter take 1-scoop once daily to maintain stores. To help maximize creatine uptake, split doses throughout the day with meals/drinks containing protein and/or carbohydrate
 Training days: take 1-scoop after before or after your workout with meals/drinks. May mix with your pre & post training formula
 Non-training days* take 1-scoop with meal or shake 
*May substitute favorite dotFIT Nutrition High Protein Bar based on venue convenience

Ideal mealtimes to maximize performance/size (keep meals within calories conducive to body composition goal)
Meal Timings 
As possible eat every 4-hours
Larger pre-training/event meal 2-3Hr before training
Larger post meal ~30-60min after last post workout supplement
Early morning training
Eat a large pre-training type meal the night before
Consume only the pre-workout snack/shake before training (as shown above) & follow workout day supplement schedule above
Tournament play (multiple games)
<1.5Hr break: bars and hydration/electrolyte recovery drink
1.5-2.5Hr: small pre-training-type meal
>2.5Hr: normal pre-training meal
Fluid Recommendations* 
16 oz 2Hr before activity (extra 8-16 oz 1hr before on hot days)
4-8 oz every 20 minutes during activity
20 oz for every pound of weight loss post-activity
*If necessary (extended training sessions) use electrolyte formula and water as directed; may mix with AminoFormula

Weight/Muscle Gain Instructions
Using the dotFIT program
All your muscle gain needs including menu plans and keeping body fat down are contained in the dotFIT program (if you have a trainer, you can both use it). Go to the dotFIT home page and log in (using the icon in far upper right corner) and you will come to this page: http://www.dotfit.com/new-user-register (You may just click this link for now). From there simply follow instructions creating your program and setting your goal. Once you enter your personal statistics and goal, you’ll have all you need including diet. Every week when you update your measurements/weight/bodyfat, the program will automatically tell you what to do to stay on goal. There is also a complete exercise program you can use to create the proper program to accomplish your goal – and again, just answer the simple questions including entering your goal, and your exercise program will be created. However, if possible, we recommend one of our trainers to help you get started.
Weight/Muscle gain
For aggressive weight/muscle gain, you can plug into the program a 1lb/week gain and follow directions at each weekly weigh-in update as they will be the same as shown below based on weekly results.
In order to simultaneously increase weight/muscle and performance: males may gain up to one-half pound per week and females up to one-quarter pound per week. Beginning exercisers, children and growing teens may gain more. Additionally, if performance is not the focus, meaning size increase is the priority, you can add more calories than shown below to attempt to gain the desired weight slightly quicker. Make sure your daily diet contains at least 1gm of protein for each pound of lean body mass (LBM) divided 4-6 times a day including before and after training as shown in you supplement recommendation.
Total daily calorie intake should be moderately above current expenditure (dotFIT program will automatically create the right menus, and chose the “Athletic Menu” to use as a guideline). If weight gain does not occur as described, you may add roughly 100 to 250 calories to your daily total (based on body size) consisting of equal amounts of carbohydrates and protein and moderate fat. For example, 20 g protein, 20 g carbohydrate, 10 g fat equaling 250 calories. If preferred, use your shakes or snacks to supply extra calories. Following the addition of extra calories, if after one week weight gain does not occur, repeat the above process*. All this is automatically taken care of using your dotFIT program.
*If body fat or overall weight increases undesirably, slightly reduce daily caloric intake or add a preferred form of aerobic exercise until you achieve your desired weight trend.


 
Neal Spruce
CEO
Office. [PHONE]
Fax.     [PHONE]
Follow my podcast, SuppBeast, available on all channels!
           

From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Tuesday, September 17, 2024 8:31 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Muscle Gain
Question: for an aging male close to 60 is there any different approach to gaining muscle besides a caloric surplus and strength training routine? should they Train 5x per week or benefit more from 3x with adequate rest days?
 

