Observational study finds multivitamin use not associated with a lower mortality rate (nutraingredients-usa.com) 
Does anyone know what the definition of the Multivitamin and mineral formulas (MVM) that qualified as daily use of a MV supplement in this study (previous null studies definition was 3 or more)? Of course, the only way the study has any weight would be if the formulas that qualified for use contained the ~20 potential known under-consumed vitamins and minerals (individual vitamins and minerals don't work in a vacuum). Further, I have never heard anyone claim that MVM extend life, but clearly complete formulas have the potential to make each decade of life healthier by filling gaps we all have from foods, including the recent one that demonstrated a significant reduction in cognitive decline. And by the way- yes medical professional organization do recommend daily MVM, such as the prenatal that erased almost 30% of major birth defects (more than just folate). Moreover, international nutrition scientist, who obviously are far more educated on nutrition than the medical doctors, recommend daily MVMs that contain the known under-consumed nutrients as a viable means to fill gaps (in fact it is published in their consensus report). To tell people (or insinuate) that filling nutrient gaps is not necessary based on a study such as this, or others that did not study the use of a complete MVM from womb to tomb, would be irresponsible.

Just a quick note to all of you, especially RWC. Everyone supplements (food fortification) and if it wasn't for this "supplementing" we would still have all the same low lifespans we did up to the early 20th century before penicillin (now we have aging problems that proper nutrition including supplementing can help mitigate). So don't throw in the "we would have died out" - because we actually did die way before our time until we supplemented all the missing nutrients unattainable in many regions or diets. Unfortunately, with food fortification alone, every diet survey shows no one meets what experts have set as RDAs necessary for best long-term health. In other words, not everyone eats the same foods, especially now. So, slam the MVM industry if you want, but daily MVM supplementation is intuitively necessary, which is why true experts recommend MVM to fill gaps left by foods, which unfortunately most everyone has. Again, it's not only from a practical standpoint that you can't study womb to tomb complete MVM supplementation (containing the ~20 potentially known under-consumed nutrients), but it would also be unethical.

I'm sure you are great doctor, and I will respect that. But wow, sorry you misunderstood what I was saying as it appears to upset you so I will leave the conversation here with this clarification. Food fortification is adding nutrients (supplementing foods) to foods we consume because they were not available in common diets such as B vitamins in our grains to eliminate common nutrient deficiencies such as beriberi, pellagra, Iodide and fluoride fortification to remedy teeth and thyroid issues, Vitamin D in milk to irradicate rickets, etc. Therefore, the point is that fortification is a form of supplementation that filled gaps. And no, I'm not managing data for my convenience, I'm simply following nutrition experts' advice and passing it on: ﻿﻿A panel of 14 international experts in nutritional science and health care determined and published in their consensus panel report regarding multivitamin mineral supplements (MVMS). ﻿﻿The Use of Multivitamin/Multimineral Supplements: A Modified Delphi Consensus Report, 2018. PMID 29573851 ﻿MVMS can broadly improve micronutrient intakes when they contain at least those that are consumed insufficiently or have limited bioavailability within a population. ﻿ ﻿MVMS may be individualized according to age, sex, life cycle and/or other selected characteristics (activity level). ﻿ ﻿Adequate intakes are necessary for normal biological functioning required for good health; in some instances, higher than recommended micronutrient intakes have the potential to provide additional health benefits. ﻿ ﻿Meeting daily intakes established by DRIs should be an explicit public health goal for individuals and populations ﻿ ﻿Use of MVM supplementation is one approach to ensure that adequate micronutrient needs are met in support of biological functions necessary to establish and maintain health. ﻿﻿In response to convincing evidence published earlier this year, the chief medical editor at Harvard Health Publishing says he now recommends daily MVM supplementation for the population at-large ﻿“Before this study, I supported anyone who wanted to take a standard daily MVM, although I did not promote its use for all my patients,” he wrote. “However, this new evidence has tilted my opinion in favor of a daily MVM for everyone. It’s relatively inexpensive and quite safe.” Dr. Howard LeWine. ﻿There are many more experts that agree, so with all due respect, I choose to take this advice and pass it on to the humans in my orbit. ﻿ ﻿ ﻿And no, I was not confusing antibiotics with supplements. Someone said something about "we would have died out a long time ago if we needed more vitamins". The point was we did die before our time (shorter lifespans) when all necessary nutrition was not widely available in every area. The discovery of penicillin came around the time of widespread nutrition availability, and by saving people from early deaths (disease related infections) this drug expanded the average human lifespan. Further, MVM do not treat anything, other than a true deficiency, which is rare in developed nations. Insufficiencies are common based on incomplete food diets and therefore filling those gaps can be protective as many studies have shown.
