Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting and congrats on the progress. It is very simple using the dotFIT program to stay track. When you plug in your weekly weight or biweekly body fat measurement, the program automatically tells you what to do. Or you can stay ahead of the response by going back to your goal page and inserting your new body weight and or bodyfat and goal. The program will alter your daily calorie intake appropriately. I placed more information below that gives you an idea how everything works so that you would never come to a plateau until you want to - i.e., you reach your body composition goal.
Thanks again and have a great Sunday.


More information:
This will give you the information you need to handle any plateau problem. It is how the dotFIT program works to continuing losing bodyfat as you measure the client on weekly or bi-weekly measurement days.
Diet Monitoring & Adjustments for Bodyfat Reduction
Program Algorithms

Adjustments: 
Measurable or visual reduction in body fat and/or weight proceeds in a consistent manner, e.g. a decrease in circumference inches, and/or the desired average decrease in body fat per week
If progress stops or slows dramatically, use one or combination of adjustments to re-start the process:
Increase daily activities (e.g., daily steps or other non-athletic/exercise activities)
Standing and pacing burns 1.5-2 times more calories than sitting for the same period
There are approximately 2000-2500 steps (depending on stride length) in a mile. Walking 2000 steps will burn ~75-150 more calories (depending on individual size) than sitting for the same time, takes ~20-30min and can be done anywhere, even in the office, while on the phone or watching TV
Increase cardio workout time and/or intensity and include interval training if necessary
Ex: if doing 30 minutes 5D/WK, go to 45min and add interval work within the time frame
Decrease food intake approximately 200 to 300 calories per day or remove a small portion (carbs/fats) of largest meal other than pre-workout meal (incorporate 3-days low/1-high as necessary)
Add  dietary support beyond baseline as necessary (thermogenic, energy partitioning, appetite control, etc.)
Repeat the process any time body fat is stable for at least one week. Always remember if you are supplementing properly and you stop losing fat, you need to eat less, move/burn more or a combination of the two regardless of what you read or hear from others. As you lower calorie intake, make sure your protein intake stays at or above 1gm per pound of body weight to protect LBM.


From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Sunday, April 28, 2024 5:30 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Weight Loss
Question: i have logged my food for 2 weeks. Yes I have lost. SO EXCITING. how do i adjust my caloric intake to stay on track?
 

