Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us.  The dotFIT LeanMR protein powder is a whey isolate if that is what you prefer and lactose free. Keep in mind all the dotFIT proteins are virtually lactose free because the lactose is removed during the ultra-filtration process. The dotFIT BestPlantProtein (completely non-dairy – all plant sources), is of course is totally lactose free (plants do not contain lactose), and is equal to whey protein, including an isolate, in efficacy (results) because it has been fortified with extra amino acids to match the whey protein’s amino acid profile, which is what makes whey protein/isolate superior. Therefore, basically you can choose any dotFIT protein if you are only lactose intolerant. That said, if you are allergic to something else in a dairy protein, then stick with the BestPlantProtein since it naturally contains zero lactose and works the same as the whey isolate or concentrate for all related goals. I placed the LeanMR dotFIT meal replacement program for bodyfat reduction below. You can click here https://www.dotfit.com/MRweightlossplans for a simple ready to go solution including sample menus with proper calories, foods and LeanMR meal replacement diet integration. You can substitute the BPP for the LeanMR as needed. 
Thanks again and have a great day.


 Bodyfat/Weight Loss with Maintenance and Health Supplement Program (LeanMR meal replacement program)
Click on links for brief product descriptions including short video
Daily:
dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender and follow label directions. If 50yrs or older use Over50 unless noted below; if female under 50 use Women’s; Males and very active females (competitive training protocols) under 50 use 2-Active, with both genders continuing use till 65yrs if still training competitively at which time every person will use Over50; children under 12yr use Kids; children 12-17yr use 1-Active. Vegans use 1-Vegan. 
LeanMR other favorite dotFIT protein mix such as BestPlantProtein
Use as directed within daily meal planning (see below) and to make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of lean body mass (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources divided 4-5 times daily
Can also be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired supporting contents) to shore up total daily protein needs
As needed
Super Calcium 
Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food intake (read all food labels for calcium content including protein mixes)
Females take 1 or 2 daily with meals; if you need to take 2, take one with AM meal and the 2nd with PM meal; Males take 1 only if necessary
SuperOmega 3 
Take 1-2 daily with meal if not consuming 8-16oz/wk fatty fish (take 1 if >8oz/wk but <16; 2 if ≤8oz); not necessary if consuming ≥16oz/wk unless for athletic recovery purposes, then increase as directed

Meal Replacement Integration 
Weight loss phase: 
Meal Replacements (MRs) generally supply two small meals a day and allow freedom of choice from traditional foods for the remaining allotted foods/calories. Therefore, use as two small meals within any calorie restricted meal plan of 4-5 meals since it's been shown that frequent small meals are better for weight loss than fewer larger ones especially as it relates to satiety, preservation of lean body mass (LBM) and energy levels
Get LeanMR recipes here: https://www.dotfit.com/category-cid-1868.html 
Maintenance phase 
Continue to consume 4-5 small meals daily within caloric allotment that include 2 MRs for convenience and to help ensure overall diet quality while reducing food costs.
You can go to our recipe section on the dotFIT website to get recipes with meal preparation instructions including meal replacement recipes


From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Friday, June 7, 2024 6:59 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Contact Us


 
Name: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Phone: [PHONE]
Message: Hello! I have a client inquiring about products like the Lean MR. He is lactose intolerant and I do not see a meal replacement with plant base protein. What should I recommend in addition to plant based protein, for weight loss meal supplementation? Thank you!! 🙏 
 

