Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. First of all, vitamins and minerals properly nanosized and in proper forms can be made as a powder and be very effectively absorbed (this is how the vitamins and minerals are integrated into the Alln1 SuperBlendTM (SB). However, a properly tableted Multivitamin and Mineral Formula (MVM), such as the dotFIT MVMs, which are controlled release, is also an ideal format for maximizing absorption, and may take it slightly further. We are not sure why your urine would be discolored within 10-15min after consuming the SB because it would be impossible for this condition to be caused by the SB. Bright colored urine (bright yellow) in healthy humans is generally from a mild dehydration (color of urine is altered by fluid intake - see below for more). If this is truly happening with you, you may want to have a qualified physician (gastroenterologist) check the health of your GI Tract to make sure things are functioning properly. The SB is purposely in a powdered form because the other ingredients (mushroom blend, ashwagandha, turmeric, pre & probiotics, non-vitamin antioxidants, etc.,) need to be in powdered form for proper results and therefore to make the product an actual All in One, everything needs to be in the same format, hence the MVM formula. For those of us (many/most SB users) that are very accurate in dosing to help maximize all day tissue uptake, we take 1-scoop in the AM and 1 in the PM. This method makes the product like a controlled release - i.e., we are controlling the release by splitting the dosage (splitting the dosage is also on the label). So fear not, the product works very well either way, all at once, or even better, split the dosage. See below for more on absorption. And finally, gummies are simply not capable of holding and stabilizing nutrients for any length of time, so this matrix is not even in the picture until some scientist cracks the code. 
Hope this all helps – have a great night.

Urine color
The natural color of urine is yellow, caused by a pigment called urochrome or urobilin. The kidneys filter urochrome out of the bloodstream, and urine contains it. The amount of fluids you drink determines the color of the pigment in your urine. The more fluids you drink, the lighter the color, and the less you drink, the stronger the color. 
Urine can vary in color from pale or light yellow to deep amber or dark yellow. Urochrome breaks down hemoglobin (as mentioned above), the protein that carries oxygen in red blood cells. In most situations, the color of your urine will depend on how diluted this pigment is (fluids). Having a lot of B vitamins in your bloodstream can also cause urine to appear neon yellow and many foods can alter the coloring.


Proper absorption and compliance:
The ingredients in the Alln1 SuperBlendTM are in the proper clinical dosage and forms to maximizes the body’s ability to utilize the ingredients at the target tissues in proper amounts to create the desired outcomes when used daily. All this peer review information is in the Practitioner Dietary Supplement Reference Guide Alln1 SuperBlend,  that certified practitioners have available in their trainer consoles. The dotFIT Multivitamin and Mineral Formula (MVM) tablets are controlled release and used properly (twice daily) can maximize tissue saturation. However, when using the Alln1 SuperBlendTM, which contains the same basic MVM formula, people are more likely to comply and not miss a dose (in other words, one full dose at once is better than half a daily dose). Meaning, the convenience and still great absorption, allows users better chances of getting a full daily dose of necessary nutrients (not missing their second dose of pills), not to mention the extra nutrition while solving for people not liking pills. And of course the other many ingredients in the Alln1 SuperBlendTM must be in a powdered form. Therefore, the accompanying MVM must also be integrated as a powder to make this an All in One convenient product. Mindful, many people will split the Alln1 SuperBlendTM dose by taking one scoop in the AM and one in the PM to help maximize nutrient uptake. 



From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Tuesday, July 9, 2024 1:59 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Contact Us


 
Name: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Phone: [PHONE]
Message: Hello, My name is Ian Richardson, one of the trainers at Crunch Tribeca. I had a question regarding the Allin1 supplement and its absorption into the body. I remember during the DotFit certification training, the distinction between pill multivitamins and gummy multivitamins was made. Pill multivitamins absorb more effectively because they can make it through the stomach to the small intestine where most nutrients are absorbed. Gummy vitamins are dissolved in the stomach and then sent to the kidney and urinated out, making them a less effective means of nutrient delivery. How would a powder vitamin supplement effectively absorb into the body if it also dissolves into water and would be sent to the kidneys? I notice my urine is a bright yellow color immediately after taking the supplement, even if I pee 10-15 mins after taking the supplement. I feel like that is not enough time for the nutrients to be absorbed into the body. Can you please explain why this is and if powder vitamin supplements don't absorb well similarly to gummies? 
 

