Goal setting, monitoring, and adjustments
Weight/Fat Loss
Use your dotFIT programs to get your true starting calories. All will be contained in your program including necessary weekly adjustments but below is a summary (if measuring body fat, measurements and adjustments are bi-weekly)

Weekly goal: lose 1-2LBS/week or ~1% body fat every 2-weeks. Your target daily calories are slightly lower than your daily burn. This allows you to lose at least 1LB per week without compromising performance gains. The more overweight the greater the allowed weekly loss with 2LBS loss being the maximum when performance is part of the goal.
Monitoring: weigh/measure weekly in the same dress, at the same time and on the same scale. If necessary (see below) only adjust calories in or out every 7-days:
Adjustments: a measurable or visual reduction in body fat and/or weight should take place in a fairly consistent manner such as a decrease in circumference inches, and/or the desired average decrease in weight or body fat per week. If progress stops or slows dramatically, one or a mixture of the following adjustments is all that will be necessary to re-start the process:
Increase daily activities (e.g. daily steps or other non-athletic/exercise activities)
Standing and pacing burns 2-3 times more calories than sitting for the same time period
There are approximately 2000-2500 steps (depending on stride) in a mile. Walking 2000 steps will burn ~75-150 more calories (depending on individual size) than sitting for the same time and only takes ~20-30min and can be done anywhere, even in the office
Increase workout (generally aerobic-type) time or intensity including adding interval cardio training
Decrease food intake approximately 2-300 calories/day or remove a small portion of your largest meal and repeat this reduction if after 1 week there is no change in weight/body composition
Repeat the process any time weight or body fat is stable for at least one week

Always remember if you stop losing weight/fat you only need to eat less, move more or a combination of the two regardless of what you read or hear from others.
When you have achieved your body composition goals, increase your calories to maintain desired weight.
