Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us and sorry for the delay. The only reason we use Weight Loss & Liver Support (WLLS) in the bundle is because it is a non-stimulant bodyfat reduction aid and therefore anyone can use it. Whereas ThermAccel is a stimulant (and a more aggressive aid), that may be contraindicated for certain people, such has persons with hypertension or are uncomfortable with caffein/stimulants. CarbRepel is specific to people consuming carbohydrates (CHO) and therefore not necessary in very low carb diets or meals. All said, I would always use ThermAccel for the bodyfat loss aid if the person is not averse to stimulants.
See below for a related question and answer.
Thanks again and have a great Sunday.


Q: What is a good fat burning [bodyfat reduction aid] pill to take?

A: If you are not bothered by stimulants such as caffeine, ThermAccel is the most commonly recommended weight/bodyfat reduction support product as it helps control appetite and supports increases in metabolism including total daily calories burned. Otherwise, Weight Loss & Liver Support (WLLS) is a non-stimulant product that works to support the same goals. See below for more information and make sure you are taking your complete daily Multivitamin and Mineral Formula (MVM) to make everything work better. Additionally, follow a daily food plan conducive to losing bodyfat (i.e., calorie deficit). You can use the dotFIT program and its free (you can also use it with your coach/trainer), and will give you a personalized food program that will guide you to your goal. You can reach back out to one of our phone coaches for any questions or more information (Berlinda is cc’d here).


Daily:
dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender If 50yrs or older use Over50 unless noted below; if female under 50 use Women’s; Males and very active females (competitive training protocols) under 50 use 2-Active, with both genders continuing use till 65yrs if still training competitively at which time every person will use Over50; children under 12yr use Kids; children 12-17yr use 1-Active).
Take as directed with meals
Weight Loss & Liver Support
Take 3 daily as directed. 1- before each of 3 meals or evenly split throughout the day
OR
ThermAccel (TA) 
Take as directed (TA 2tabs twice daily



 


 
Neal Spruce

From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Friday, March 22, 2024 6:23 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Weight Loss
Question: I saw in the weight loss bundle you put Lean MR and Active MV. Which are staples for my clients trying to lose weight, or even lose weight and build muscle and curb hunger. However I was curious why you put "WeightLoss & liverSupport" as the 3rd item in the bundle and chose that over CarbRepel or ThermAccell ? Thank you
 

