Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. First, congrats on the weight loss journey so far. We can certainly help finish it and keep you there. Sounds like Weight Watchers is helping keep your calories under control because they need to be adjusted as you lose weight/bodyfat to avoid plateaus. Meal Replacement programs are the most successful in supporting bodyfat/weight loss goals. Therefore, we included the complete program below that includes Weight Loss & Liver Support (WLLS) for help with appetite, and helps to mobilize unhealthy organ (“belly”) fat that causes energy metabolism problems and does not contain stimulants. Reach out to Berlinda (cc’d here) if you have any questions or want more information.
Thanks again and have great day.



Level-1 for Fast Results & Daily Recovery with Meal Replacement/Substitute Integration Program
Click on product links for a brief product description including short video
Daily:
dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender and follow label directions. If 50yrs or older use Over50 unless noted below; if female under 50 use Women’s; Males and very active females (competitive training protocols) under 50 use 2-Active, with both genders continuing use till 65yrs if still training competitively at which time every person will use Over50; children under 12yr use Kids; children 12-17yr use 1-Active. Vegans use 1-Vegan
Weight Loss & Liver Support
Take 3 daily as directed. 1- before each of 3 meals or evenly split throughout the day
LeanMR (protein and fiber rich meal replacement formula) 
Use as directed within daily meal planning (see below) and to make sure you get ~1 gram of protein per pound of lean body mass (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources divided 4-5 times daily depending on preference
Can also be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired ingredients) to shore up total daily protein needs. See below for proper menu integration.
Meal Replacement/Substitute Integration 
You may also click here for a simple ready to go solution including sample menus with proper calories, foods and LeanMR meal replacement diet integration
Weight Loss Phase:
Meal Replacements (MRs) generally supply two small meals a day and allow freedom of choice from traditional foods for the remaining allotted foods/calories. Therefore, use as two small meals within any calorie restricted meal plan of 4-5 meals since frequent meals are often better for bodyfat/weight reduction than fewer larger ones especially as it relates to satiety, preservation of lean body mass (LBM) and energy levels. LeanMR recipes are available here
Maintenance Phase 
Continue to consume 4-5 small meals daily within caloric allotment that includes 2 MRs for convenience and to help ensure overall diet quality while reducing food costs. A wide variety of healthy recipes including meal replacement recipes are available here



From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Monday, May 20, 2024 8:43 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Weight Loss
Question: I have been doing weight watchers successfully since January 2,2024 and so far lost 52 pounds. I go to the gym 3-4 times a week and enjoy lifting weights again. I see slow muscle gain and do not try lifting more than I can and increase when necessary. What can I do to help slows stubborn belly and love handle fat? I am down 10 inches so far on my waist. I have given myself one year to hit my goal of 100 pounds lost. Any advice is appreciated! My job requires me to do both manual labor and up to 10,000 plus steps daily. Thank you. 
 

