
Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. You would continue to use your baseline health supplements as shown below. You could add the AminoFormula (1-scoop 3 times daily between meals) to help recover faster. The protein shown in the standard baseline health program below is to help you economically and conveniently hit your 1gm per pound of lean body mass (LBM) of protein daily, which will be paramount in your recovery. Feel free to run this by your doctor in case there is something only they know about your physiology. But this is a solid recovery nutrition adjunct therapy.
Thanks again and have a great weekend. Good luck with the surgery! Keep us posted. 

Baseline Dietary Support for all Sport & Fitness Goals (Extra vitamin D and AminoFormula added)
(Click on product links for a brief product description including short video)
Daily:
dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender. If 50yrs or older use Over50 unless noted below; if female under 50 use Women’s; Males and very active females (competitive training protocols) under 50 use 2-Active, with both genders continuing use till 65yrs if still training competitively at which time every person will use Over50; children under 12yr use Kids; children 12-17yr use 1-Active). Pure Vegans, use VeganMV
Take as directed with meals
Vitamin D (to achieve serum 25(OH)D concentration of 40-70ng/ml) 
Take 2 daily anytime (additive to your multivitamin and mineral formula (MVM), which contains 1000ius (25mcg).
AminoFormula
1-scoop 3 times daily between meals, since for a few weeks anyway, you will not be exercising other than rehab post-surgery.
As needed:
All-Natural WheySmooth or other favorite dotFIT protein mix (based on caloric allotment for goal)
Use as directed to make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of LBM (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 3-5 times daily
Can be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired supporting contents) to shore up total daily protein needs
Super Calcium (read all food labels for calcium content including dotFIT protein shakes)*
Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food/shake intake
Females take 1 or 2 daily with meals; if you need to take 2, take one with AM meal and the 2nd with PM meal; Males take 1 only if necessary
Super Omega 3 
Take 1-2 daily with meal if not consuming 8-16oz/wk fatty fish (take 1 if >8oz/wk but <16; 2 if ≤8oz); not necessary if consuming ≥16oz/wk unless for athletic recovery purposes, then increase as directed
*All food labels including Protein Powders must contain calcium levels by serving so always check
Workout Days:
All-Natural WheySmooth or other favorite dotFIT protein mix
Take 1scoop ~30-40 minutes before workout and 1-scoop immediately following workout 

From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Saturday, March 8, 2025 8:35 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Supplements
Question: I am having spinal fusion surgery in 3 weeks. What if any supplements can or should I take post surgery?
 

