Coffee Effects
The alkaloid caffeine contained in coffee has positive inotropic and chronotropic effects on the heart via catecholamine release and raises systolic blood pressure; for instance, 250 mg raises systolic pressure by 10 mm Hg after 15 minutes. Caffeine causes mild cerebral vasoconstriction, relaxes bronchial smooth muscles, increases gastric acid secretion via gastrin release, and transiently increases diuresis. Theobromine and theophylline alkaloids in caffeine act as vasodilators, cough suppressants, and bronchodilators. The habituation effect occurs over time.
Four to five cups of coffee daily can reduce gout attacks in men by up to 40% through increased uric acid excretion, while more than six cups may reduce attacks by 59%, although decaffeinated coffee is preferable as a supportive measure.
Coffee enriched with chlorogenic acid–rich green coffee bean extracts showed increased DNA protection against oxidative damage and increased plasma-reduced glutathione via glutathione reductase activation. Roasting lowers chlorogenic acid, trigonelline, cafestol, and kahweol levels while increasing melanoidin and nicotinic acid levels.
Coffee and healthy aging
The researchers found a correlation between how much caffeine the women typically drank (which was mostly from coffee) when they were between 45 and 60 years old and their likelihood of healthy aging. After adjusting for other factors that could affect aging, such as their overall diet, how much they exercised and whether they smoked, those who consumed the most caffeine (equivalent to nearly seven eight-ounce cups of coffee per day) had odds of healthy aging that were 13 percent higher than those who consumed the least caffeine (equivalent to less than one cup per day).
Drinking tea or decaffeinated coffee was not associated with healthy aging, the researchers found. That may be because the study participants generally consumed less tea and decaffeinated coffee overall, so perhaps there were fewer chances for the researchers to find benefits linked to them, said Sara Mahdavi, an adjunct professor of nutritional sciences at the University of Toronto who led the study. Tea and decaf coffee also have less caffeine, and tea has different plant compounds from regular coffee, so that may explain the results, too, she added.


Despite the benefits shown for food intake, satiety and body composition, the mechanism by which CFE exerts
its benefits largely remains unknown. It was therefore an aim of this study to investigate possible biochemical
mechanisms of CFE. Following 16-weeks of supplementation and despite the reduction in calorie intake in the
CFE group, there were no associated changes in satiety hormone markers (namely leptin and ghrelin) from
baseline in the CFE group. The placebo group however showed significantly elevated levels of leptin, cortisol and
NPY from baseline. Typically, when leptin levels increase, satiety would improve, and weight loss or maintenance occur. However, as leptin is produced in adipose tissue25, as fat mass increases, leptin production increases26,27. Weight gain is also associated with a decreased sensitivity to leptin27, reducing the ability to achieve satiety. Leptin acts to reduce the desire to eat28, while cortisol29 and NPY28 increases the desire to eat. Therefore, at times
of hunger, leptin levels are typically low and NPY levels high, initiating a feeding desire and increasing cortisol
levels. The elevated cortisol leads to eating, which in turn increases leptin levels, reducing NPY activation and
subsequent cortisol levels30,31.
Cortisol can induce a dose-dependent increase in leptin32
and this may be why
leptin and cortisol have been shown to have inverse circadian rhythms, indicating a possible satiety regulatory
relationship33,34.
This theory is partially supported by the correlation data (Table 3), where it is shown that in the
placebo group, as leptin values increase so does the fat mass, while cortisol levels decrease (inverse relationship
with leptin). An effect not seen in the CFE group. This is also supported by a study where CFE was shown to
reduce anxiety and stress as well as act on cortisol regulation35.

