What is citric acid?
Citric acid was first derived from lemon juice by a Swedish researcher in 1784 (1Trusted Source).
The odorless and colorless compound was produced from lemon juice until the early 1900s when researchers discovered that it could also be made from the black mold Aspergillus niger, which creates citric acid when it feeds on sugar (1Trusted Source, 2Trusted Source).
Because of its acidic, sour-tasting nature, citric acid is predominantly used as a flavoring and preserving agent, especially in soft drinks and candies.
It’s also used to stabilize or preserve medicines and as a disinfectant.
Summary
Citric acid is a compound originally derived from lemon juice. It’s produced today from a specific type of mold and used in a variety of applications.

ADVERTISEMENT

Noom
Noom’s 5–minute quiz unlocks a weight loss program customized for you – now with GLP-1 options – so you can manage your health and form habits that last.
TAKE YOUR QUIZ
45 Million+ downloads

"Nutritionist Approved"

45k+ 5 ★ reviews
Natural food sources
Citrus fruits and their juices are the best natural sources of citric acid (3Trusted Source).
In fact, the word citric originates from the Latin word citrus (2Trusted Source).
Examples of citrus fruits include:
lemons
limes
oranges
grapefruits
tangerines
pomelos
Other fruits also contain citric acid but in lesser amounts. These include:
pineapple
strawberries
raspberries
cranberries
cherries
tomatoes
Beverages or food products that contain these fruits — such as ketchup in the case of tomatoes — also contain citric acid.
While not naturally occurring, citric acid is also a byproduct of cheese, wine, and sourdough bread production.
The citric acid listed in the ingredients of foods and supplements is manufactured — not what’s naturally found in citrus fruits (4Trusted Source).
This is because producing this additive from citrus fruits is too expensive, and the demand far exceeds the supply.
Summary
Lemons, limes, and other citrus fruits are the predominant natural sources of citric acid. Other fruits that contain much smaller amounts of it include certain berries, cherries, and tomatoes.

Citric acid is primarily derived from a fermentation process using the mold Aspergillus niger, which produces the acid by feeding on sugars like molasses or corn starch, rather than being extracted directly from citrus fruits, although it naturally occurs in high concentrations in lemons, limes, and other citrus fruits; making it the main natural source of citric acid. 
Key points about citric acid:
Natural source: Primarily found in citrus fruits like lemons and limes. 
Commercial production: Most citric acid used commercially is produced through fermentation by the fungus Aspergillus niger. 
Process: This mold is fed a sugar source (like molasses or corn starch) to produce citric acid. 


My name may make you think of fruit juice, but I’m so much more.
What molecule am I?
 
Citric acid is an important natural compound that has been known since the late 18th century. The pioneering Swedish–German chemist Carl Wilhelm Scheele isolated it from lemon juice in 1784. It has since been found in other citrus fruits, pineapples, and even animal tissues.
Citric acid is a major industrial chemical, produced at >2 million t/year worldwide. Its main source is not from fruit, but from the fermentation of crude sugars (e.g., molasses and corn starch) by the mold Aspergillus niger. It has a myriad of uses, mostly in foods and pharmaceuticals; these uses include acidifying agent/pH adjustment, antioxidant, flavoring agent, and as metal salts in dietary supplements. In industry and domestic applications, citric acid is a chelating and buffering agent in many cleaning products and a starting material for synthesizing citrate esters, itaconic acid, acetonedicarboxylic acid, and other compounds.
Biochemists are familiar with the citric acid cycle, which is a major life process in all respiring organisms. Also called the Krebs cycle or the tricarboxylic acid cycle, the process begins with sugar-derived pyruvate, which enzymatically generates acetyl-coenzyme A (CoA) to start the cycle. Acetate released from acetyl-CoA reacts with oxaloacetic acid produced at the end of the previous cycle to form citric acid; this is followed by several steps, during which an oxidation reaction releases energy to the body in the form of adenosine triphosphate.
Many scientists contributed to the discovery and establishment of the citric acid cycle. The two key researchers were Albert Szent-Györgyi at the University of Szeged (Hungary) and Hans Adolf Krebs at the University of Sheffield (UK); they were awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1937 and 1953, respectively.
Citric acid hazard information*
| Hazard class** | GHS code and hazard statement | GHS code and hazard statement |
| Serious eye damage/eye irritation, category 1 | H318—Causes serious eye damage |  |
| exposure, respiratory tract irritation, category 3 | H335—May cause respiratory irritation |  |
*Compilation of multiple safety data sheets. The most severe reported hazards are shown.
**Globally Harmonized System (GHS) of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals. Explanation of pictograms.

