Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. You won’t find a better source of creatine as documented by the NSF-Certified for Sport testing, which is why we are the largest distributor of 3rd party tested programs and products in the sport and fitness channel. If fact we used Creapure from Germany as a creatine source, then our manufacture found a purer one. See below for a related FAQ,
Thanks again and have a great weekend.

Q: Are you still using Creapure as your creatine monohydrate source?
A: We found a better one, which why we NSF-CS the product – to prove it is cleaner than any other raw material including Creapure.
When Creapure ran out of raw materials about 3years ago we had to find another supplier, which we did, and the new supplier actually had a purer creatine monohydrate (see test results below).
Now our source of creatine surpasses Creapure specs in creatinine levels, making ours even more pure. Further, ours passes all NSF-CS standards, meaning it is as clean and pure as it gets and therefore any argument on raw material quality is mute.

Creatine Monohydrate – min 99.9%
Creatinine – Creapure-max 100ppm; Creatine Monohydrate used in dotFIT products is lower, at 50ppm
Dicyanamide – max 50ppm
Dihydrotriazine – max 3ppm
Heavy Metals – max 10ppm
CAS No 6020-87-7
Same Nutritional Profile 
No Allergens
Our ingredients in all creatine products are Kosher, Halal, Vegan, Non-GMO, not on WADA/NSF/NFL Banned Attributes list

More information
See below for more information and feel free to contact any of our almost 2000 licensed facilities/businesses that incorporate the dotFIT products into their programming for references. 


3rd Party Tested & NSF Certified for Sport Dietary Supplements
dotFIT is Evidence Based* 24/7 Support with Practitioner Products Only
dotFIT Worldwide is R&D company that delivers holistic evidence-based programming, products and support to over 1700 Sport/Fitness & Health Facilities, and over 50,000 sport & fitness professionals
 
#1 Recommended and Used Dietary Supplements in the Sport & Fitness Channels including college and professional sports
If you are looking for health, performance and fitness support with Practitioner Products only (not found in consumer channels and sold through professionals) and want full product disclosure (rationale for use, mechanisms of action, safety, contraindications, etc.) you can click the link to the dotFIT Practitioner's Dietary Supplement Reference Guide (PDSRG) that is used by all our sport, fitness and health professionals and published by our Scientific Advisory Board and R&D team. The first section describes everything around criteria, recommendation, testing and manufacturing processes. All products are 3rd party tested and specific dotFIT health and performance products are also NSF Certified for Sport (NSFCS). Peer review quality documents for individual products are found in their respective categories. dotFIT is a research and development company for sport, fitness and health professionals, therefore, all programs/products must pass our Evidence-Based Advisory and Legal Committee Rules including 3rd party testing procedures such as Health Canada, NSF and mandatory audited GMPs. Individual products can be found in respective sections. PDSRG (used for formulation safety and efficacy rationale, certification and education purposes, not consumer facing and located in the certified practitioner console).
*Evidence based: sport and fitness/weight control solutions (or clinical decisions) that represent the best available evidence and supported by the consensus of their respective scientific community
Takeaway
You need both: 1) documentation that doses/forms match positive clinical trials found in the practitioner dietary supplement reference guide (PDSRG) i.e.,  submitted documentation
and 2) 3rd party testing to make sure it’s in the product at that dosage (Ref)




From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Friday, March 21, 2025 3:50 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Nutrition
Question: where do you source your creatine? and why is it perhaps a better choice with a comparison to "Klean Athlete" Product. Your product was recommended by a professional fitness friend and user. Thx...Rick Murphy, PGA 
 

