Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. Your daily protein, fat, carbohydrate (CHO) and calorie intake is predicated on many personal details in which the dotFIT program will give you. The dotFIT licensed facilities have staff that can deliver the personalized dotFIT program for you tied to your fitness goals.
Alternately, if a club visit or training session with one of our trainers is not a viable option, you can get all your diet, supplement and health, exercise programming yourself (or use one of our phone coaches) online from the dotFIT program. Go to the dotFIT home page and log in (using the icon in far upper right corner) and you will come to this page: http://www.dotfit.com/new-user-register (You may just click this link for now). From there simply follow instructions creating your program and setting your goal. We also placed the dietary support program we give everyone whether they exercise or not so that they have their nutrition needs shored up to help recover from daily life activities and stay within the calories they need to support a healthy body composition and weight. Your individualized supplement program will expand as necessary as you approach your goals.
Again, the dotFIT program contains all your health and fitness needs including protein, fat, CHO and your body composition goal and exercise programming. Once in the program, simply choose your goal to get started you will receive a personalized diet and exercise program. I have cc’d Berlinda here again to connect with you to help get you started.
Thanks again and have a great day.

Baseline Dietary Support for all Sport & Fitness Goals
(Click on product links for a brief product description including short video)
Daily:
dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender. If 50yrs or older use Over50 unless noted below; if female under 50 use Women’s; Males and very active females (competitive training protocols) under 50 use 2-Active, with both genders continuing use till 65yrs if still training competitively at which time every person will use Over50; children under 12yr use Kids; children 12-17yr use 1-Active). Pure Vegans, use VeganMV
Take as directed with meals
WheySmooth or other favorite dotFIT protein mix (based on caloric allotment for goal)
Use as directed to make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of LBM (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources including foods divided 3-5 times daily
Can be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired supporting contents) to shore up total daily protein needs
As needed:
Super Calcium (read all food labels for calcium content including dotFIT protein shakes)*
Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food/shake intake
Females take 1 or 2 daily with meals; if you need to take 2, take one with AM meal and the 2nd with PM meal; Males take 1 only if necessary
Super Omega 3 
Take 1-2 daily with meal if not consuming 8-16oz/wk fatty fish (take 1 if >8oz/wk but <16; 2 if ≤8oz); not necessary if consuming ≥16oz/wk unless for athletic recovery purposes, then increase as directed
*All food labels including Protein Powders must contain calcium levels by serving so always check
Workout Days:
WheySmooth or other favorite dotFIT protein mix
Take 1scoop ~30-40 minutes before workout
Take 1-scoop immediately following workout



From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Thursday, March 27, 2025 10:01 AM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Nutrition
Question: How do I know how many carbs, fats, and protein that I’m supposed to have a day?
 

