Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us. With all the conditions you have, we must assume you are under doctor/dietitian care. Therefore, make sure you take anything you chose to do to them for approval, mindful we are not giving clinical advice here. That said, the most important thing you can do being diabetic and on a bodyfat/weight loss journey (assuming you are or need to be) is to manage your insulin properly. Below we placed a meal replacement program that can be integrated into your daily menu planning, mindful that high protein meal replacement programs are the most successful natural weight loss solutions available and a program 10s of thousands of our clients use regularly. The complete program includes the necessary dietary support to protect health and lean body mass (LBM), while supporting any bodyfat/weight loss menu plans (see sample diets in links) and fitness goal. Also see: Menus: All Calories (1000-4000c in 250c increments) and Choices On Website. 
Make sure you run this by your doctor, (which they would generally agree with), unless there is something about your condition, only your doctor is aware of. Mindful we do not give clinical advice, even though we have clinical dieticians on staff.
Thanks again and have a great weekend. And reach out to Berlinda (cc’d here) for any questions or more information.
Bodyfat/Weight Loss with Maintenance and Health Program
Click on links for brief product descriptions including short video
Daily:
dotFIT Multivitamin & Mineral for your age and gender and follow label directions. If 50yrs or older use Over50 unless noted below; if female under 50 use Women’s; Males and very active females (competitive training protocols) under 50 use 2-Active, with both genders continuing use till 65yrs if still training competitively at which time every person will use Over50; children under 12yr use Kids; children 12-17yr use 1-Active. Or use the Alln1 SuperBlend™  
LeanMR other favorite dotFIT protein mix
Use as directed within daily meal planning (see below) and to make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of lean body mass (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources divided 4-5 times daily
Can also be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired supporting contents) to shore up total daily protein needs
As needed
Super Calcium 
Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food intake (read all food labels for calcium content including protein mixes)
Females take 1 or 2 daily with meals; if you need to take 2, take one with AM meal and the 2nd with PM meal; Males take 1 only if necessary
SuperOmega 3 
Take 1-2 daily with meal if not consuming 8-16oz/wk fatty fish (take 1 if >8oz/wk but <16; 2 if ≤8oz); not necessary if consuming ≥16oz/wk unless for athletic recovery purposes, then increase as directed

Meal Replacement/Fitness Food Integration (2 shakes/d in 4-5 meal plan)
You may also click here for a simple ready to go solution including sample menus with proper calories, foods and LeanMR meal replacement diet integration
Weight Loss Phase:
Meal Replacements (MRs) generally supply two small meals a day and allow freedom of choice from traditional foods for the remaining allotted foods/calories. Therefore, use as two small meals within any calorie restricted meal plan of 4-5 meals (see sample menus) since frequent meals are often better for bodyfat/weight reduction than fewer larger ones especially as it relates to satiety, preservation of lean body mass (LBM) and energy levels. LeanMR recipes are available here
Maintenance Phase 
Continue to consume 4-5 small meals daily within caloric allotment that includes 2 MRs for convenience and to help ensure overall diet quality while reducing food costs. A wide variety of healthy recipes including meal replacement recipes are available here. 


From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Thursday, July 17, 2025 3:51 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: Contact Us


 
Name: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Phone: [PHONE]
Message: I’m 58 I have type 2 diabetes which is out of control. I desperately need a meal plan I can follow. I’m allergic to all fish so it has to be left out of my diet. I also have gerd, high blood pressure, bad cholesterol. Any advice would be greatly appreciated. Thank you in advance.
 

