First: Angie

Wow, that is awesome. Thank you! I really love the channel, btw! Great info 🙏🏻

I currently have some supplements that I got on my own with no medical advice, so I'm just not sure if they are needed specifically for my goals or if I'm also missing any essential ones. 

I've been working out consistently now for almost what will be a year in April. I've lost 25 pounds so far, and I'm wanting to tone up and lose more fat. I started at 160 pounds, and I'm currently 135. My goal is 120 or 125. 😅

I'm 5'4", and I'm mostly sedentary at my work. I try to work out 4 to 5 times a week. I definitely need to get more steps in, but I'm trying. 🥲 

I have PCOS, so I'm trying to limit dairy and anything that might cause inflammation.  (It's hard, but I'm becoming more serious about it).

I gain weight easily, so I'm trying to find a diet or nutrition plan that would work for me.

I know this was a lot, but I appreciate your help and advice. Thank you for your patience!

Current Supplements:
Good morning ! Sorry for the late response. 

Here is the list of the current supplements I'm taking (but maybe not so consistently, haha), and why I'm taking them(according to Google, lol) 

1.  L-Theanine for stress and cognitive support 

2.  Magnesium Threonate for cognitive support and to help with sleep. 

3.  Vitamin A for immunity

4.  Moringa for hair, skin and managing glucose. 

5.  Ginger root to help with weight loss. 

6.  Vitamin D3 for calcium

7.  Maca root for stress and mood. 

8.  BCAA and L Glutamine powder mixed in with my protein shake for muscle growth and repair. 

9.  Creatine HCL (I haven't taken this one yet, I was on monohydrate but it gave me really bad migraines I had to stop, no matter how much water I was drinking)

10.  Berberine for weight management. 

😅😅😅😅 I know it's alot, haha.

A: 
First of all, yes, there are lots of supplements here including many that crossover, yet the program is incomplete, meaning our Practitioners would start you from scratch – i.e., start with a baseline dietary support program that supports any fitness goal and discontinue any other current supplementation unless a qualified medical professional has recommended it for a specific clinical condition.
Your food plan should be conducive to your body composition goal, which in your case is bodyfat/weight reduction while supporting/building lean body mass (LBM). As you know, polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is very common, and everything here should help you manage symptoms, but we always recommend you inform your attending physician. 
Using the meal replacement integration program below, that integrates with your daily menu planning, you will arrive at your goal if you stick to it along with your resistant training program and proper overall calorie intake including necessary adjustments (see bodyfat/weight loss monitoring and adjustment instructions below the program). Also do the best you can to get your steps to total ~10K/day, even if you start lower and take 60 days to achieve the 10K/day average (take your dog for multiple walks, and if you don’t have one, take someone else’s😊). Read all below carefully to get started. If you need help, one of our practitioners can jump on a quick call. We can adjust your supplement program shown below after your body is properly adapted to this complete dietary support program. That said, I added the creatine now (use the unflavored CreatineMonohydrate), since it would only be a benefit, and if it fits into your budget, this would be the next add to your program.
The Alln1 SuperBlend™ will have all the micronutrients, pre & probiotics, etc., in the correct dosages, along with adaptogen herbs that will help manage stress and support sleep quality and duration.

Read all below carefully.
Meal replacements/substitutes are the #1 natural weight control solution including 2xs faster/more weight/fat loss & 9xs greater maintenance than diet (caloric restriction) alone 
The LeanMR is the most popular meal replacement shake. Therefore, we placed the LeanMR meal replacement (MR) program for bodyfat reduction below with links to recipes and menus. You can click here https://www.dotfit.com/MRweightlossplans for a simple ready to go solution including sample menus with proper calories, foods and LeanMR meal replacement diet integration. Or you can use the  dotFIT program (free service). After filling out the questionnaires, choose the 40% Carbs, 30% protein, 30% fats (40/30/30) menu plan but incorporate the MRs by removing other meals to maintain the proper calories and percentages. And of course, you can also use MRs to support any other health or fitness goal. Always getting at least 1gm of protein per pound of LBM daily.
Bodyfat/Weight Loss, Maintenance, Health with LBM support Dietary Support Program
Click on links for brief product descriptions including short video
Daily:
Alln1 SuperBlendTM  (SB) contains full days’ recommendation for: vitamins and minerals, antioxidants, probiotics, prebiotics, Ashwagandha, turmeric & mushroom blend, along with 6gms of fiber and 2 full servings of vegetables
Take as directed: 1-full serving daily (2-scoops); 1-scoop in AM and 1-scoop in PM; visit recipe section to incorporate as desired into daily lifestyle* (most popular recipe is mixing with your dotFIT Vanilla protein).
Vitamin D (to achieve serum 25(OH)D concentration of 40-70ng/ml) 
Take 2 daily with SB or any time
Super Omega 3 
Take 2 daily at any time 
LeanMR other favorite dotFIT protein mix
Use as directed within daily meal planning (see below) and to make sure you get ~1gm of protein per pound of LBM (or weight if not overweight) daily from all sources divided 4-5 times daily
Can also be used as a supplement to a meal or by itself (or mixed with desired supporting contents) to shore up total daily protein needs
CreatineMonohydrate (unflavored) 
Take one scoop daily with shake or meal
As needed
Super Calcium 
Use if you do not meet the daily needs of calcium (~1000-1200 mgs) from food intake (read all food labels for calcium content including protein mixes)
Females take 1 or 2 daily with meals; if you need to take 2, take one with AM meal and the 2nd with PM meal; Males take 1 only if necessary
SuperOmega 3 
Take 1-2 daily with meal if not consuming 8-16oz/wk fatty fish (take 1 if >8oz/wk but <16; 2 if ≤8oz); not necessary if consuming ≥16oz/wk unless for athletic recovery purposes, then increase as directed
Workout Days:
AminoFormula (AF)
Take ½ scoop with favorite fluid ~10 minutes before and may continue to drink during first 20 minutes of workout.
Take ½ scoop immediately following workout
Or start with 1 full scoop and consume throughout workout so it’s finished at end of activity.
Meal Replacement Integration
You may also click here for a simple ready to go solution including sample menus with proper calories, foods and LeanMR meal replacement diet integration
Weight Loss Phase:
Meal Replacements (MRs) generally supply two small meals a day and allow freedom of choice from traditional foods for the remaining allotted foods/calories. Therefore, use as two small meals within any calorie restricted meal plan of 4-5 meals since frequent meals are often better for bodyfat/weight reduction than fewer larger ones especially as it relates to satiety, preservation of lean body mass (LBM) and energy levels. LeanMR recipes are available here. 
Maintenance Phase 
Continue to consume 4-5 small meals daily within caloric allotment that includes 2 MRs for convenience and help ensure overall diet quality while reducing food costs. A wide variety of healthy recipes including meal replacement recipes are available here.
 
Goal setting, monitoring and adjustments
Weight/Fat Loss
All is contained in your dotFIT program including necessary weekly adjustments but below is a summary (if measuring body fat, measurements and adjustments are bi-weekly)
Weekly goal: lose 1-2LBS/week or ~1% bodyfat every 2-weeks. Your target daily calories are slightly lower than your daily burn. This allows you to lose at least 1LB per week without compromising performance gains. The more overweight the greater the allowed weekly loss, with 2LBS loss being the maximum unless special circumstances prevail (e.g., tight timelines, aggressive action needed, etc.).
Monitoring: weigh/measure weekly in the same dress, at the same time and on the same scale and if applicable, same bodyfat measurement tool. As necessary (see below) only adjust calories in or out every 7 or 14 days.
Adjustments: a measurable or visual reduction in body fat and/or weight should take place in a fairly consistent manner such as a decrease in circumference inches, and/or the desired average decrease in weight or body fat per week/biweekly (bodyfat measurements should be biweekly). If progress stops or slows dramatically, one or a mixture of the following adjustments is all that will be necessary to re-start the process:
Increase daily activities (e.g. daily steps or other non-athletic/exercise activities)
Standing and pacing burns 2-3 times more calories than sitting for the same time period
There are approximately 2000-2500 steps (depending on stride) in a mile. Walking 2000 steps will burn ~75-150 more calories (depending on individual size) than sitting for the same time and only takes ~20-30min and can be done anywhere, even in the office, while on the phone or watching TV
Increase cardio workout time and/or intensity and include interval training if necessary
Ex: if doing 30 minutes 3-5D/WK, go to 45min and add interval work within the time frame
Decrease food intake approximately 2-300 calories/day or remove a small portion of your largest meal and repeat this reduction if after 1 week there is no change in weight/body composition
Repeat the process any time weight/body fat is stable for one or 2 weeks. Always remember if you are supplementing properly and you stop losing fat, you need to eat, move/burn more or a combination of the two less (changing foods within the proper calories can also increase calories burned) regardless of what you read or hear from others. As you lower calorie intake, make sure your protein intake stays at or above 1gm per pound of body weight to protect LBM.
When you have achieved your body composition goals, increase your calories to maintain desired body composition and weight.

