Hi [CUSTOMER],
Thanks for contacting us and thanks for the thoughtful questions. The amount of vitamin E in any supplement should be based on the population you serve, which is what ours does. I’m guessing you are a certified Practitioner, therefore, you realize you have all the answers to your questions related to evidence-based dosages for all dotFIT products in the Practitioner Dietary Supplement Reference Guide (PDSRG) . If not, I have cc’d Berlinda here to make sure you know how to get access to your science supporting proper recommendations.
Quick answer is that the Vitamin E in our Active and other dotFIT multivitamin and mineral formula (MVM) including the Alln1 SuperBlend™ is in the proper daily amounts to support active individuals and does not exceed the Tolerable Upper Limit Levels (UL). The Food and Nutrition Board of the Institute of Medicine has set the UL for vitamin E at 1,000 mg (1,500 IU) per day for supplemental vitamin E. Further, you mention that few persons are Vitamin E deficient (agreed-see true definition of a deficiency, which is death if not corrected). However, most persons are vitamin E insufficient. Meaning nothing works optimally where Vitamin E is involved, which is about 300 different necessary life functions. 86% of the US population is below the RDA and almost that much below the EAR. Therefore, vitamin E is listed as nutrient of concern in the Dietary Guidelines for Americans. All this makes it an important supplement for our population being active individuals (there will always be sub-populations that should not have certain amounts of specific nutrients – but that is a clinical issue, and they should know this from their health history). We are on the protective and daily recovery side with the appropriate amounts of supplemental VMs to correct the insufficiencies of western diets for our population.
Below is more information including a friendly reminder of the population we work with, which is satisfying nutrition requirements of humans that want to remain healthy and active. We own this domain along with sports performance/fitness performance.
Thanks again and have a great weekend.

More Info.
The vitamin and mineral amounts in all the dotFIT formulas are best in science today (unless you have an unusual contraindicated medical condition) since it was designed by vitamin and mineral researchers to complement the western diets in industrialized nations. In other words, not just to fill gaps but to also offer protection against the common maladies of aging. All due respect to the studies you may cite, they simply callout an association that does not apply to the general active population. 
The bottom line is that the nutrient RDAs in the DRIs including Daily Values, are set/designed to correct deficiencies, and not meant to be optimal. Moreover, the safe and optimal range is well above the RDAs for many vitamins (e.g., C, D, E, B-vitamins, etc.,) and some minerals, but never over the Tolerable Upper Intake Levels (UL), which is the end range (see chart in your PDSRG).
The daily amounts of vitamins and minerals currently known as the safe and optimal range, are captured the peer review referenced Practitioner's Dietary Supplement Reference Guide (PDSRG) and contained within those documented amounts in the dotFIT formulas - - design of the Multivitamin and Mineral Formula (MVM).
 
More information on vitamin and minerals daily intakes above the RDAs
Current evidence-based supplemental amounts of vitamins and minerals for active individuals that support long and short-term health are contained in the dotFIT formulas including the Alln1 SuperBlendTM, especially the primary antioxidant vitamins C and E. Further, none of the ingredients are at or over the known ULs (they are all in the known established safe and optimal range). The complete rational for each ingredient is from the world’s leading experts and found in the  Practitioner's Dietary Supplement Reference Guide (PDSRG) that is used for certification and practitioner education (not consumer facing). All references are from peer review published research and the formulas 3rd party tested including most having an additional NSF Certified for sport (meaning it also meets all worldwide safety, label claims and drug testing regulations). The product is formulated by the experts at dotFIT. Feel free to send the information links to your customer or dietician. The content will be a good education for the inquisitive person. Have your contact click on the appropriate links that explain the design of the Multivitamin and Mineral Formula (MVM) and then they can click on links to the peer-review referenced article that sets the foundation found in the PDSRG document.

From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Friday, May 9, 2025 1:17 PM
To: Experts <[EMAIL]>
Subject: dotFIT - Ask the Experts


 
From: [CUSTOMER]
Email: [EMAIL]
Category: Supplements
Question: Hi I was looking into the dosages of the different vitamins in our Active MV and I had some questions about the vitamin E dosage in it. It seems really for a lipid soluble vitamin. On the NSHS website they list some studies that show that 180 mg every other day can increase the risk of bleeding and hemorrhaging. A well as another study that showed as low as 150 iu a day increases all cause mortality. Since most people aren’t deficient in vitamin E what is the benefit from having such a high dosage when there may be potential risks associated with it?
 

