Turkesterone:
Takeaway:
Our trainers sell creatine alone or combined in our Performance Bundles, which either way far outperform any potential muscle protein synthesis (MPS) benefit of Turkesterone. 
More Info
Recent studies on Turkesterone, a phytoecdysteroid (500mg/d) show mixed results, with limited, often conflicting evidence in human trials regarding muscle growth and performance improvements. Proposed mechanism is an increase in MUSCLE PROTEIN SYNTHESIS. While some studies suggest it may aid in recovery or provide subtle ergogenic effects, recent 2024-2025 research indicates no significant increases in lean muscle mass, muscle strength, or metabolic rate compared to placebos. Almost all Turkesterone studies are animal and cell studies, with only 3 small human trials. Science consensus: across the board, creatine supplementation alone far outperforms Turkesterone for performance and muscle gain.
Your business solution: All else equal, the 3 different performance/muscle gain bundles we sell, which all include creatine, far surpass the potential gains (if any) compared to Turkesterone supplementation. Further, long-term effects of Turkesterone use are virtually non-existent, leaving its long-term safety profile unknown. Long-term safety and efficacy use of creatine and other bundled evidence-based products is well established.
MK-677
Takeaway
Our PTs have referral access to the better version of the compound through a 3rd party provider so no liabilities
More Info
MK-677, popular in the bodybuilding and biohacking communities, is an oral (25mg/d) with more side effects than the injectable Ipamorelin. Both are ghrelin receptor agonists to increase GH. The latter does not increase appetite or water retention like MK-677. Ipamorelin is considered a safer, more targeted, and precise option for long-term health and, when combined with GHRH (like CJC-1295), is considered a "classic" combination for anti-aging and body composition.
Legal and Safety Status (why you want a 3rd party seller)
Not FDA Approved: MK-677 is classified as an investigational new drug.
Illegally Sold: It is often illegally marketed as a "dietary supplement" or "research chemical".
Prohibited in sports: It is banned by the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) and the Department of Defense (DoD).
Your business solution: The better version (Ipamorelin) and other peptides are available through a 3rd party doctor group partner, therefore no club potential liability. Ordering, screening and payment go directly through partner with significant referral rev-share.
Tongkat Ali (Malaysian ginseng) AKA longjack
Takeaway:
Our PTs deliver proven safe and effective performance stacks with Alln1 SuperBlend™ for mood and stress management far outpacing Tongkat purported benefits.
More info
May slightly but likely insignificantly raise testosterone (except in testosterone deficient males). 2024 studies: The Effect of Tongkat Ali Supplementation on Body Composition in Exercise-Trained Males and Females
400mg/day- Results: There were no between-group differences for body composition. No differences between groups for any additional assessments (e.g., handgrip strength, mood, sleep, and salivary free testosterone and cortisol). Conclusions: Four weeks of supplementation with Tongkat Ali in exercise-trained males and females does not affect body composition, mood, sleep, vigilant attention, handgrip strength, cortisol, and free testosterone
May improve stress hormone profile and certain mood state parameters.
Safety unknown and under investigation
Tongkat ali has multiple constituents and the chemical compounds that are possibly responsible for liver injury are not known. The clinical features of tongkat ali liver injury suggest that it is immunologically mediated.
Your business solution are the creatine stacks with the Alln1 SuperBlend™ (SB):
Far more effective for increasing performance and muscle gains with the different stacks, and the SB has all the evidence-based herbs for stress management and cortisol reduction (ashwagandha, mushrooms, etc.). All protocols proven safe and effective.

Methylene blue (MB)
Takeaway:
Our PTs deliver science supported baseline dietary support programs including longevity stacks, which far outperform MB for improving cellular health without the side effects.
More Info
Because it’s shown promise in protecting mitochondria (energy-producing powerhouses of our cells that weaken in aging), people have started to promote methylene blue as a way to slow cellular aging, including in the brain.
MB is legal and FDA-approved as a prescription medication (e.g., for methemoglobinemia -rare, life-threatening blood disorder where the iron in hemoglobin is oxidized, preventing it from releasing oxygen to body tissues), and as a diagnostic stain, but it is not approved for use as an over-the-counter dietary supplement. While sold online, non-pharmaceutical, unregulated methylene blue carries risks, including, unknown contaminants and dangerous interactions with serotonergic drugs, which many people use daily (e.g., antidepressants). Therefore, do not use oral methylene blue products unless prescribed.
The short-term use of a pharmaceutical-grade product in a controlled medical setting is different than buying an illegal supplement off the internet and taking it every day because you’ve heard that it will give you loads of energy by “enhancing mitochondrial efficiency.”
Be aware of serious risks, including serotonin syndrome, birth defects, and haemolysis.
Your business solution: longevity stacks/bundles with proven safe and effective benefits. Moreover, any benefit of MB would be washed out with just the minimal evidence-based longevity program (MVM, omegas, proper protein) or Alln1 SuperBlend™ because of optimal cellular health with all necessary micronutrients.

Methylated vitamins
Takeaway:
All the vitamins our PTs deliver, including in the SB, are properly prepared for maximum absorption/cellular function and contain the 2 methylated vitamins that can be (folate & B12).
More Info
Methylated vitamin statements are very misleading and wholly untrue. It is based on 2 vitamins that are methylated or can be methylated, not that they necessarily should be. Generally, due to the spreading influencer misinformation, many supplement marketers misuse the term “methylated multivitamin,” What they actually mean:
Contains 5-MTHF instead of folic acid
Contains methylcobalamin instead of cyanocobalamin
It does NOT mean all B vitamins (or A, D, E, K) are methylated — because chemically that is impossible.
I beat the shit out of the influencer’s comments about this topic. Folic acid (synthetic folate) is actually the only form approved for claims of prevention, especially during pregnancy. Although, we play the marketing game and use the only 2-methylated forms of vitamins (folate and B12) available that can be methylated (folate as calcium L-5-methyltetrahydrofolate and B12 as methyl cobalamin). If the others could be methylated, they would be basically worthless*. Just influencers taking a science topic analogous to what they have done with seed oils, and unknowingly (or not) twisting or misrepresenting the science so it generates revenues. (See Q&As). You cannot methylate most vitamins-period!
Your business solution: All complete MVM formulas and Alln1 SuperBlend™ have the VMs prepared in forms the body can use. They all are in a pre-formed structure to allow the body to not just absorb them (optimal bioavailability) but also allows proper “functional absorption” (active at the target tissue*), which is better than just bioavailable absorption. All our labels have the forms listed.
* Ex: Vitamin B6 does not undergo methylation to become active, unlike folate and B12. Instead, it is converted into its active coenzyme form, pyridoxal-5-phosphate (P5P or PLP).

Sea salt for minerals
Takeaway:
Our PTs do not sell salt for minerals, they promote complete 3rd party tested MVMs with exact mineral counts published.
More info
Sea salt is a seasoning, and cannot fill mineral gaps, since even in large unhealthy doses, it only contains trace and unknown quantities of a few minerals. A complete MVM properly fills all known mineral gaps from diet.
They serve completely different purposes.
Sea salt:
Adds flavor
Provides sodium and chloride
Contains trivial trace minerals
Does NOT meaningfully cover nutrient gaps
A complete multivitamin/mineral:
Delivers known, labeled, clinically relevant amounts
Helps address common population shortfalls
Is standardized and tested
Bottom Line
Sea salt is a sodium seasoning with tiny trace minerals. Very few humans, if any, need extra sodium in diet.  A complete MVM is a structured micronutrient including mineral support system. They are not interchangeable.
Your business solution: none, we do not make salt, just don’t promote it for minerals supplementation

Water soluble creatine
Takeaway:
Our professionals deliver the only proven, science-backed creatine monohydrate and would not offer an alternative source because of the lack of evidence to date.
More info 
The sales numbers for “water soluble creatine”, although the form means nothing related to efficacy, is simply a product of the hype around creatine and influencer money to separate a brand from the norm, – nothing to do with results – just marketing spin.
Creatine supplementation does not have to be “water soluble” to be safe and effective. In fact, all powdered creatine products are water-dispersible, but they are not all highly water-soluble or need to be. Most powdered creatine monohydrate (CrM) products are considered moderately soluble in water but proven superior to all other creatine forms including the advertised “water soluble” creatine products. Creatine supplementation does not need to be “water soluble” for the body to use it. The body (GI tract) dissolves the ingested creatine and puts into solution to absorb it.
The evidence-based scientific position including The International Society of Sports Nutrition (ISSN) position stand on creatine states:
CrM is the most extensively studied and clinically effective form. Claims that other forms deliver greater uptake or are superior are currently unfounded – basically a marketing spin to help justify their increase in costs – in other words the other forms (“water soluble”) are more expensive with no efficacy advantage. 
End all be all by science:
Creatine monohydrate is the better-supported formula.
Many “water-soluble creatines” dissolve more easily (salts like citrate/malate/HCl), but the key metrics are muscle creatine loading and performance outcomes. And the best head-to-head evidence shows no superiority vs monohydrate (and sometimes worse, as with ethyl ester), not to mention more expensive.
Your business solution is the 3 creatine monohydrate products supported by the strongest science sold separately or in multi-ingredient formulas containing other proven ergogenic aids/ingredients and included in layered performance stacks.
Full spectrum amino acids
Takeaway
Got this one covered in “spades”. Our formula being delivered now by our trainers is the best on the market because of the ingredients, individual amounts and proper dosing based on science.
More info
Full spectrum AAs generally refers to supplements (or proteins) containing all 9 essential amino acids (EAAs) needed for protein synthesis, muscle repair, and growth.
Essential amino acids (EAAs) are the preferred formulas for stimulating muscle protein synthesis, especially in aging and/or experienced athletes. The supplement can also be used for fortifying meals to deliver more protein. 
As you remember, the EAA formula was first commercialized by me while at 24HR and after I wrote the peer review college text on “Amino Acids in Sports” published by CRC Press. Many of the copycat products hide the individual amino acid amounts within a “proprietary Blend” total amino acid amount only, which should be a non-starter for anyone. Further, we have found none on the market, including the ones the famous influencers are promoting (see below), that have the proper dosing and far too expensive if dosed properly.
Your business solution is our number one performance product, AminoFormula, with proper dosing and half the cost of the pretenders when compared gram for gram and properly dosed. (See the comparison below for our product versus one of the mass market’s top sellers that we have in our monthly seminars for staff and PTs).



