Methylene blue (MB)
Takeaway:
Our PTs deliver science supported baseline dietary support programs including longevity stacks, which far outperform MB for improving cellular health without the side effects.
More Info
Because it’s shown promise in protecting mitochondria (energy-producing powerhouses of our cells that weaken in aging), people have started to promote methylene blue as a way to slow cellular aging, including in the brain.
MB is legal and FDA-approved as a prescription medication (e.g., for methemoglobinemia -rare, life-threatening blood disorder where the iron in hemoglobin is oxidized, preventing it from releasing oxygen to body tissues), and as a diagnostic stain, but it is not approved for use as an over-the-counter dietary supplement. While sold online, non-pharmaceutical, unregulated methylene blue carries risks, including, unknown contaminants and dangerous interactions with serotonergic drugs, which many people use daily (e.g., antidepressants). Therefore, do not use oral methylene blue products unless prescribed.
The short-term use of a pharmaceutical-grade product in a controlled medical setting is different than buying an illegal supplement off the internet and taking it every day because you’ve heard that it will give you loads of energy by “enhancing mitochondrial efficiency.”
Be aware of serious risks, including serotonin syndrome, birth defects, and haemolysis.
Your business solution: longevity stacks/bundles with proven safe and effective benefits. Moreover, any benefit of MB would be washed out with just the minimal evidence-based longevity program (MVM, omegas, proper protein) or Alln1 SuperBlend™ because of optimal cellular health with all necessary micronutrients.

Key Legal and Safety Facts
Approved Usage: FDA-approved to treat methemoglobinemia -rare, life-threatening blood disorder where the iron in hemoglobin is oxidized, preventing it from releasing oxygen to body tissues and used in hospitals for conditions like cyanide poisoning.
Unregulated Supplements: Many methylene blue products sold online as "supplements" for energy or brain health are not evaluated or approved by the FDA for safety or purity
Legal Status: It is legal for medical, laboratory, and industrial use. However, using unregulated, non-pharmaceutical-grade forms for self-treatment is risky.
Risks: It can cause serious side effects, including serotonin syndrome, particularly if taken with antidepressants (SSRIs/SNRIs).
Contraindications: It should not be used by individuals with a Glucose-6-Phosphate Dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency. 
Always consult a healthcare provider, as, unregulated products may contain dangerous impurities
Methylene blue: a controversial diagnostic acid and medication?
The toxic effects of the application of MB are dose-dependent and include serious symptoms such as hemolysis, methemoglobinemia, nausea and vomitus, chest pain, dyspnoea, and hypertension. Some countries regard MB as harmful because of the resulting skin irritation and triggering of an adverse inflammatory response. MB induced serotoninergic toxicity clinically manifests as neuromuscular hyperactivity

Is Methylene Blue A True Brain Booster? A Pharmacologist Explains
Methylene blue is a synthetic dye that exists as a dark green powder and takes on a deep blue color when dissolved in water. My work and that of others suggest that many synthetic dyes widely used in foods and medicines can trigger potentially harmful immune system reactions in the body. But unlike commonly used food dyes – one of which was recently banned by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration – methylene blue is not derived from petroleum, also known as crude oil. Instead, it comes from a different family of dyes, which isn’t thought to have these health concerns.
Methylene blue was first synthesized in 1876 as a dye for textiles and was valued for its intense color and ability to bind well to fabrics. Soon after, German physician Paul Ehrlich discovered its ability to stain biological tissues and to kill the parasite that causes malaria — making it one of the first synthetic drugs used in medicine.
The chemical didn’t gain widespread use as a malaria treatment because it was no more effective than quinine, the standard therapy at the time. But in the 1930s, the dye found a new use in testing the safety of raw or unpasteurized milk. If its blue color faded quickly, the milk was contaminated with bacteria, but if it remained blue, the milk was considered relatively clean.

This safety test now is largely obsolete. But it works thanks to methylene blue’s chemical superpower, which is that its molecules can swap electrons with other molecules, like a tiny battery charger.
How Do Doctors Use It Today?
That same chemical superpower enables some of methylene blue’s medical uses. Most significantly, doctors use it to treat a rare blood disorder called methemoglobinemia, in which hemoglobin, an iron-rich protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen, takes on a different form that can’t do the job. Methylene blue restores hemoglobin’s function by transferring an electron.
Doctors also sometimes use methylene blue to treat the effects of carbon monoxide poisoning, septic shock or toxicities from drugs such as chemotherapy. It is also used as a surgical dye to highlight specific tissues such as lymph nodes, or to identify where tissue is leaky and therefore may be damaged.
How Does Methylene Blue Affect The Brain?
Methylene blue can enter the brain by crossing the protective tissue barrier that surrounds it. Researchers have also found that the chemical can protect and support mitochondria, cell structures that are often described as the powerhouses of the cell. Methylene blue may help mitochondria generate energy for cells to use. For these reasons, researchers are studying methylene blue’s effect on the brain.
So far, most of what’s known about the substance’s effects on the brain comes from studies in rats and in cells grown in a lab dish – not in people. For example, researchers have found that methylene blue may improve learning, boost memory and protect brain cells in rats with a condition that mimics Alzheimer’s disease.

Is Methylene Blue Safe?
Methylene blue is generally safe when used under medical supervision. However, the chemical has some serious risks.
For one thing, it can interact with widely used medications. Methylene blue inhibits a molecule called monoamine oxidase, whose job is to break down an important brain chemical, serotonin. Many commonly used medications for treating anxiety and depression target serotonin. Taking the supplement along with these medicines can cause a condition called serotonin syndrome, which can lead to agitation, confusion, high fever, rapid heart rate, muscle stiffness and, in severe cases, seizures or even death.
In people with a rare genetic deficiency of an enzyme called G6PD, methylene blue can cause a dangerous condition in which red blood cells break down too quickly. At high doses, the chemical can also raise blood pressure or cause heart problems. Also, it’s considered unsafe for pregnant or breastfeeding women because it may harm the fetus or baby.
Overall, while scientists have found hints of some fascinating properties of methylene blue, much larger, longer trials are needed to know if it truly works, what the right dose is and how safe it is over time.
Lorne J. Hofseth, Professor and Associate Dean for Research, College of Pharmacy,




