Hey [CUSTOMER],
Let’s catch up on everything this week when you get a minute, especially everything 24HF. In the meantime, here is my take on the supplements below. Mindful, we are always open to exploring alternative manufacturers that are NSF certified, that can manufacture our products.
Products listed below:
These products are hot because they are the latest influencer driven products, not because they have adequate safety and efficacy science (evidence-based) that we would want our certified fitness professionals to include in their PT programs, or professional recommendations. All our solutions for each one of these products goals, are documented far superior and most importantly safe (see attached document for comparisons -just read the top sentence for each product unless you want to read all😊). That said, for people shopping for influencer promoted products like these (and the business wants to “ride the wave”), if you want to put a few of them in a retail area including website for people to purchase on their own, that is a business decision for you because the consumer is making the choice, thus limiting the liability exposure. But for sure we do not want our fitness professionals recommending these, not just because we have a better solution, but also because we would be exposed on a few of these products (e.g., Turkesterone, MK-677, Tongkat Ali, Methylene Blue).

The bottom line is we just need to make sure our certified trainers only deliver/offer evidence-based (science consensus) proven safe and effective products to protect from potential liabilities (remain spotless as we are now) and enhance our public image including media coverage. Part of my job for you is to integrate nutrition/supplements in a way that absolutely enhances goals while protecting the business from any potential liabilities or other risks common to the world of supplements. And for sure, we don’t want to give our PTs/staff too much to think about or confused over different dietary supplements offerings for the same outcomes😊.


We just need to make sure our certified trainer’s only deliver/offer evidence-based (science consensus) proven safe and effective products to protect from liabilities (remain spotless as we are now) and enhance our public image including media coverage. 


My job is to integrate nutrition/supplements in a way that protects the business from any potential liabilities, which are rampant in free-wheeling dietary supplement claims and true science support. 
None of these internet/influencer driven products have value beyond the evidence-based programs we curate for all goals. Selling them through trainers creates liability since most do not fall under the rules of legal dietary supplements, not to mention the potential side effects. Therefore, it is a business decision for you. Sell anything currently popular regardless of known safety and efficacy, as many websites currently do, and take your chances. But do not let trainers sell this stuff because, you are now liable for any negative result because you (staff) sold it to them. This is why we have been spotless for 40years and no media attacks because we prove our trainers are experts in combining dietary supplements with training  and lifestyle. 

Mindful that the negative information on most of these controversial/fad/fringe products safety and efficacy record is out there for all to google and CHAT GPT so it doesn’t matter how accurate or applicable the information is, even if you believe the product is produced properly. The safety and efficacy of fringe products will always be in doubt opening the door to litigation if promoted by staff members. Where the safety and efficacy of our evidence-based business dietary support solutions are all considered and proven safe and effective, thus minimizing risks while actually delivering accelerated results across the board. 
Mindful, if you decide to sell this to our database,  you are basically selling for a cheaper outl

