Tongkat Ali (Malaysian ginseng) AKA longjack
Takeaway:
Our PTs deliver proven safe and effective performance stacks with Alln1 SuperBlend™ for mood and stress management far outpacing Tongkat purported benefits.
More info
May slightly but likely insignificantly raise testosterone (except in testosterone deficient males). 2024 studies: The Effect of Tongkat Ali Supplementation on Body Composition in Exercise-Trained Males and Females
400mg/day- Results: There were no between-group differences for body composition. No differences between groups for any additional assessments (e.g., handgrip strength, mood, sleep, and salivary free testosterone and cortisol). Conclusions: Four weeks of supplementation with Tongkat Ali in exercise-trained males and females does not affect body composition, mood, sleep, vigilant attention, handgrip strength, cortisol, and free testosterone
May improve stress hormone profile and certain mood state parameters.
Safety unknown and under investigation
Tongkat ali has multiple constituents and the chemical compounds that are possibly responsible for liver injury are not known. The clinical features of tongkat ali liver injury suggest that it is immunologically mediated.
Your business solution are the creatine stacks with the Alln1 SuperBlend™ (SB):
Far more effective for increasing performance and muscle gains with the different stacks, and the SB has all the evidence-based herbs for stress management and cortisol reduction (ashwagandha, mushrooms, etc.). All protocols proven safe and effective.

Take home: 2024 studies: The Effect of Tongkat Ali Supplementation on Body Composition in Exercise-Trained Males and Females
400mg/day- Results: There were no between-group differences (p > 0.05) for body composition (delta score, mean ± SD: lean body mass kg-treatment −0.5 ± 1.9, placebo −0.4 ± 0.7; fat mass kg-treatment −0.5 ± 1.6, placebo 0.3 ± 1.0, % fat treatment −0.1 ± 1.4, placebo 0.5 ± 1.1). Moreover, there were no differences between groups for any additional assessments (e.g., handgrip strength, mood, sleep, and salivary free testosterone and cortisol). Conclusions: Four weeks of supplementation with Tongkat Ali in exercise-trained males and females does not affect body composition, mood, sleep, vigilant attention, handgrip strength, cortisol, and free testosterone.
Safety: Tongkat ali has multiple constituents and the chemical compounds that are possibly responsible for liver injury are not known. The clinical features of tongkat ali liver injury suggest that it is immunologically mediated
Several studies in humans have shown mild increases in serum total testosterone levels in patients treated with tongkat ali, usually requiring several weeks for a full response and with no increase in free testosterone levels or in sex hormone binding globulin. The increases in testosterone levels have been generally associated with improved symptoms and mild increases in muscle strength in response to resistance training but have not been linked to improved athletic performance
Tongkat ali (Eurycoma longifolia), or "Malaysian ginseng," is a Southeast Asian root scientifically shown to improve testosterone levels (30–40% in some studies), libido, stress resilience (reduced cortisol), and mood. It is widely used for age-related hormone decline and, with 200–400mg doses, to enhance physical performance, muscle strength, and erectile function.  Popular herbal supplement in the United States, as extracts of tongkat ali roots have been promoted as increasing testosterone levels and improving athletic performance. Reports of clinically apparent liver injury attributed to tongkat ali in body builders have recently appeared.
National Institutes of Health (NIH) | (.gov) +6
Scientific Findings and Key Benefits
Testosterone Boost: Studies indicate it supports higher free and total testosterone by lowering sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) and aiding in the release of bound testosterone. It is particularly effective for men with low testosterone or under stress.
Libido and Sexual Health: Known as a traditional aphrodisiac, scientific trials confirm it improves erectile function, libido, and male fertility.
Stress and Mood: Research demonstrates that daily supplementation reduces cortisol (stress hormone) and improves psychological mood states, reducing tension, anger, and confusion.
Physical Performance: It is used by athletes to improve body composition and speed up recovery. 
National Institutes of Health (NIH) | (.gov) +10
Scientific Evidence and Limitations
Standardization is Key: Clinical benefits are typically associated with standardized extracts of the bioactive compound eurycomanone.
Small Studies: While promising, many studies on humans are small, and more extensive research is required to fully confirm its efficacy compared to conventional, standard medicine.
Safety: It is generally considered safe when used appropriately, but some studies note the potential for high levels of mercury in unrefined products

