Is Weight Loss Really all About Calories in And Out?

Below are 2 articles from the Fitness Vault that puts the issue in perspective and answers many related questions:
We know that you have always been a strict believer in weight loss being a simple calories in vs. calories out equation is this still true?

A Calorie is a Calorie - Or is it?
Although all experts agree about calorie balance being the root to weight changes, below is a quote from one of the world's leading experts on weight control:
We asked Dr. Jules Hirsch, emeritus professor and emeritus physician in chief at Rockefeller University, who has been researching obesity for nearly 60 years, about the state of any research that "appears" to contradict calorie balance facts and weight control . Dr. Hirsch, who receives no money from pharmaceutical companies or the diet industry, wrote some of the classic papers describing why it is so hard to lose weight and why it usually comes back. 
"Perhaps the most important illusion is the belief that a calorie is not a calorie but depends on how much carbohydrates a person eats. There is an inflexible law of physics — energy taken in must exactly equal the number of calories leaving the system when fat storage is unchanged. Calories leave the system when food is used to fuel the body. To lower fat content — reduce obesity — one must reduce calories taken in, or increase the output by increasing activity, or both. This is true whether calories come from pumpkins or peanuts or pâté de foie gras. To believe otherwise is to believe we can find a really good perpetual motion machine to solve our energy problems. It won’t work, and neither will changing the source of calories permit us to disobey the laws of science". 


Below is the complete set of Q&A based on the calorie balanced/weight control questions

We know that dotFIT has always been a strict believer in weight loss being a simple calories in vs. calories out equation.  
The laws of energy are facts that form our entire world. The moment you think weight control/mass changes is not about the laws of energy, you have no basis to work with and you forever fall into the diet abyss. Once you make peace with the facts, you are free to choose how to accomplish the goal. 
I think we have all had a client that swears to consuming an extreme calorie deficit and still does not see weight loss. This simply means their food recording method is flawed, not the laws of energy.  
If we truly believe that the client is honest in their logging, (they may be honest but then the math is flawed either on 1 or both sides of the equation - mass changes don't lie), what is the best way to approach this situation? Get them an armband, put them on the program, enter their weight each week and follow directions. The feedback NEVER tells you how much you truly ate, ONLY what you need to do to hit goal. You can't argue with the energy expenditure numbers from the armband, and you can't argue with weekly average mass change from the same scale/BF measurement so the feedback is ALWAYS correct - this is where you start. Now, for the next steps, see similar Q&A below.

Most people that you describe here will forever be lost in their denial or complete lack of understanding, making their recording accuracy impossible. Therefore, in their minds, they are right. If the latter is the problem, you can start by giving them this article from the dotFIT Fitness Vault: "How You May Be Sabotaging Your Weight" http://www.dotfit.com/content-1453.html followed by using our Plateau Solution Q&As.
If denial is the problem, it's beyond your expertise other than education of the facts and hoping they have a life changing moment that will make them stick to the proper eating/calorie plan. Trust me, if they have to, they will eat exactly as told and lose the weight.
What can we do to keep people motivated and break the weight loss and gain cycle permanently?
http://www.dotfit.com/content-35967.html 
There is no such thing as "permanently" for everybody but there are people that have successfully lost weight and kept it off for long periods of time. These people's plights have been chronicled in a data based housed at the University of Pittsburg and Colorado Denver. It's called The National Weight Control Registry (NWCR). The "trigger event" or reason for losing weight was the primary factor in sticking with a lifestyle/diet that allowed the weight loss and maintaining it - i.e. highly motivated. The second part to the equation is becoming "addicted" to that lifestyle, which these people have now accomplished. The information that has been captured from these successful maintainers was a list of common denominators - i.e. common aspects of their new daily routines. Listed below are the salient like-factors that created success. Also keep in mind, because it's evidenced-based, these factors are built into and what shapes the dotFIT program.
Common denominators to successful weight loss & maintenance (data from NWCR) all contained in the dotFIT program – current evidenced based criteria
Low fat (incl. proteins) restricted calorie diet (portion control)
Regular physical activity (~1hr/day including walking)
Maintain eating patterns (structured, recording, Meal Replacements)
Breakfast (begins the structure)
Self-monitoring of weight
Correcting rebounds before they become large gains
Meal replacements as appropriate
 The dotFIT Program's agnostic nature (they can participate on their terms) reduces need for compliance and the use of the armband & coaching can guarantee success 
#1 most popular question: How do you get through weight loss/fat plateaus?
http://www.dotfit.com/content-35872.html
We can make anyone look different every day if they follow their program. Just like we do for bodybuilders, actors or other athletes and celebrities that must control body fat to look a certain way in order to win or collect a paycheck. You only come to a weight or body fat plateau for one reason, DIET compared to activity. And to correct it there is only one answer, albeit many ways to accomplish the answer, and that's to burn more and/or consume less. What, including how much, you put back into your body post exercise and throughout the day is what makes your exercise-induced body composition changes. Nothing happens if you don’t eat except shrinking until death. Nothing happens to body fat if you consume the same amount of calories you burn. SO obviously it is a simple matter of adjusting food and/or movement. Below is the complete answer:
There are 2 series of solutions to the plateau problem: 1) if you are complying with the proper program then the solution is an adjustment to the program because your body has gone through an adaptation to the workload and calorie intake. The good news is that the dotFIT(dF) program always correctly makes that adjustment for you when you enter your weekly/biweekly measurements by giving you the option to create a new program based on results (or lack of) and goal date. 2) You are unable to comply with weekly program instructions based on motivation and/or program doesn’t fit your desired lifestyle.
Complying with the program:
Change the workout and/or intensity including mode of cardio
Increase daily activities anyway you can (read below)
Reduce calories at each meal or consume half of your largest meal
Add weight control supplements to help burn more and/or eat less calories
Incorporate the armband for accuracy and daily visibility to help increase all activities
When It comes to weight/fat loss, when you come to a plateau, you must burn more, consume less or a combination of the two – period! So first let’s understand why the body eventually plateaus even when you are doing exactly what you were doing when you were losing weight, which of course is the problem. The main reason the body comes to plateaus during dieting or exercise (besides consciously or unconsciously not properly following the plan) is that when weight is lost and as you become more fit your body uses fewer calories to perform the same work, which forces you to have to perform more (or significantly different) work and/or eat less in order to continue to progress. A second common reason is an overall reduction in daily activities away from the gym. A person may, through change in employment or other lifestyle alterations, simply start to move less throughout the day and now exercise cannot off-set the decrease in daily calorie burn. And finally this: during dieting or at anytime following significant weight loss, one will often tend to binge eat as the body attempts to recover lost pounds. And it only takes one “binge” to wipe-out a week’s worth of accurate dieting. Most people can’t believe this because they worked hard to consume the proper amounts for 7 or 10 straight days, so the one binge is either underestimated, forgotten or they never grasped the fact that every calorie counts no matter when it’s eaten and all figures into one’s daily average. All this said our general recommendation for plateaus for people who eat well and exercise regularly (and are “tapped out” as far as time or cutting calories) is to increase your daily movements at home or at the office. Never sit when you can stand or pace such as when using the phone. Standing and/or pacing can burn more than 2-times the calories as sitting! Click here for our article with more tips: http://www.dotfit.com/content-1484.html . Additionally, changing the workout (including interval training, intensity and type of cardio you perform) can help burn a few more calories in the same timeframe. And finally, you can add supplements like CarbRepel, FatRelease and/or ThermAccel that can help you burn more daily calories by bumping your metabolism and/or inducing more daily movements, partially block incoming calories and help control appetite.
Summary for compliers:
Monitoring: weigh/measure in the same clothing, at the same time and on the same scale. Take care to also use the same method or device for body fat measurements. If necessary (see below) only adjust calories in or out every seven days:
Adjustments: a measurable or visual reduction in body fat and/or weight should take place in a fairly consistent manner such as a decrease in circumference inches, and/or the desired average decrease in weight or body fat per week. If progress stops or slows dramatically, one or a mixture of the following adjustments will be necessary to re-start the process:
Increase daily activities (e.g. daily steps or other non-athletic/exercise activities)
Standing and pacing burns 2-3 times more calories than sitting for the same time period
There are approximately 2000-2500 steps (depending on stride length) in a mile. Walking 2000 steps will burn ~75-150 more calories (depending on individual size) than sitting for the same time and only takes ~20-30min and can be done anywhere, even in the office, while on the phone or watching TV
Increase workout time or intensity
Decrease food intake approximately 200 to 300 calories per day or remove a small portion of your largest meal

Repeat the process any time weight or body fat is stable for at least one week. Always remember if you stop losing weight/fat you need to eat less, move more or a combination of the two regardless of what you read or hear from others. Once you have achieved your body composition goals, increase your calorie intake, decrease activities or a combination of the two in order to maintain desired weight.
Not or unable to comply:
The inability to comply with a program designed to accomplish a fitness goal is almost always due to lack of motivation. Therefore, the first thing we need to do for our clients that fall into this category is to lower the motivation threshold for success. Make it easy to follow the plan by making it their plan and not forcing them to change their life in order to succeed. Instead start with minor adjustments to their current lifestyle including eating habits. Example: don’t tell them what to eat, just tell them how much by knowing how many calories they burn. Make the exercise program fits into their current lifestyle, even if it’s only walking to start. Just make sure they burn more calories than they consume if losing fat is a goal. Show them immediate results and instant gratification by teaching them how to watch their fat/weight come off by the minute or hour using the dotFIT program with or without the armband. Motivation comes with constant visibility to results. Seeing is believing and a constant reinforcement what you’re doing is working.
You must be the creator of your program or you won’t be the master 
The only way you will own a behavioral change is if you create it. Start the client anyway you can, sticking to this simple rule: burn more calories than you consume, on average, until you reach your goal. Just follow the number. The good news is that “one good turn deserves another”, meaning, as the body changes and the client starts to look and feel better, they will also do things better. BUT the first turn has to come easily and on their terms, or they are set to fail or eventually give up. Square pegs don’t fit in round holes – they need to own their program because it fits the life they choose, not a life someone else chooses for them. Everyone wants to be lean but they must arrive their way. Your guidance and using the dotFIT program allows total flexibility thus dramatically lowering the need for motivation. NO one can stick to a program they can’t or won’t want to do forever. Show them that the world is the gym: keep moving anyway you can; and their food is their diet: they can eat ANYTHING they want, just not EVERYTHING they want. Knowing your numbers and seeing immediate feedback makes motivation far less necessary to succeed. All that said there are some proven motivational tips listed below and remember that creating new habits is a continual process but has the best chance of leading to lasting change.
Create a vision of your ideal self
Set 90 day goals
Set weekly SMART goals
Track success rate weekly
Adjust along the way
Use setbacks to learn and grow

Outline of Steps:

1. Create a vision
Write down the answers to these questions:
What do you value most?
How does your health and fitness relate to what’s important to you?
Envision your ideal self. What do you look like?
What do you feel like?
What are you doing?
What are you NOT doing?
What are the benefits to realizing your vision?
What are your strengths that will help you?
When have you been successful in the past? How did that feel?
What accomplishments are you proud of?
Who can provide support?
What resources can you use along the way?
What would life be like if you reached your vision?
What would life be like if you didn’t?

2.Commit to your vision
Write it down in the present, sign your name and share it with someone
Post cues to remind you of your vision
Sticky note on mirror
Schedule daily appt to review
Find a photo or paint an image

3.Set 90-day goals
What do you want to accomplish in the next 90 days? 
What behaviors will help you reach your vision?
Write down 3-5 in order of importance

4.Set weekly SMART Goals - specific actions needed to reach 90 day goals and vision
Identify 1-5 things you’d like to work on
S – specific – what, when
M – measureable – how much
A – action-based
R – relevant - to the 90 day goal
T – time-bound
Vague vs. SMART goals
I will drink more water VS. I will drink 1 glass of water with lunch and dinner 5 days a week
I will workout regularly VS. I will do an aerobic class after work, 3 days a week
I will eat 5 servings of fruits and vegetables a day VS. I will eat a piece of fruit at breakfast and snack 4 days a week. 
5. Review what went well on a weekly basis and make adjustments.
Recall your best experiences over the past week.
For your weekly SMART goals, calculate your percent success rate. Example:
Goal: Drink 1 glass of water at lunch and dinner 5 days/week
Result: 3 days = 60% success
Questions to answer:
What contributed to your success?
What could have made it higher?
What challenges did you face?
Is this goal too ambitious or too easy?
What are you getting out of this goal?
ON a scale of 1 to 10, how confident are you that you can maintain this behavior in the next few weeks? If you’re not at least a 7, consider revising the goal.
6. Turn setbacks into learning experiences. Trial and correction, not trial and error leads to success
Evaluate setback
Identify triggers that put you at risk - people, places, environments, situations
Make a list of ways to modify or eliminate trigger and do it now or set a SMART goal

#2 most popular Q&A: How do I avoid the starvation mode when dieting? http://www.dotfit.com/content-35585.html 
The good news is that the “starvation mode” does not exist for any human being. Unfortunately even some well known health professionals have contributed to this myth but it is simply not true. The so-called “starvation mode” is point where the body supposedly decide not to lose more weight, even when you eat “hardly anything”, by slowing down the metabolism because the body is afraid you will starve to death. To put your entire issue into perspective, first realize that the people around the world who truly die of starvation do not pass away overweight.
This myth was born from a combination of facts: 1) we physically move very little in the modern world, thus burn few daily calories compared to our ancestors, and 2) most people unconsciously or consciously tend to underreport their TRUE calorie intake by 20-45% (the more overweight, the more they underreport). Therefore we are actually eating more and moving less than we think.
The main reason the body comes to plateaus during dieting or exercise (besides consciously or unconsciously not properly following the plan), is that when weight is lost and you become more fit, your body uses fewer calories to perform the same workload. Your muscles are more efficient making work easier and you are moving less body weight during all activities, forcing you to add work or eat less in order to continue to progress. Also dieting often makes people become less energetic, forcing a reduction in their daily activities, therefore burning fewer calories overall. My general recommendation for plateaus for people who eat well and exercise regularly (therefore are “tapped out” as far as time or cutting calories) is to simply increase your daily movements at home or at the office. Stand or pace anytime you can instead of sitting: pace the room while on the phone or thinking, take stairs instead of elevators or escalators, park farther away from your final destination, take a walk at lunch, walk to a colleague’s office to talk rather than use e-mail or the intercom, etc. Additionally, you can try changing your workout, including the intensity and type of cardio you perform, which can help you burn a few more calories in the same workout timeframe. And never sit down or stop moving in the gym.
Below are 2 similar questions:
What's the largest calorie deficit I can be in and still avoid the starvation mode?
http://www.dotfit.com/content-35587.html
What you mean is what is the biggest deficit you can be in and not lose muscle/lean body mass (LBM). We say this because there is no starvation mode, only the myth and a bad excuse for not losing weight when supposedly dieting. First of all, any time you lose weight you lose both muscle and fat (1/4 muscle, 3/4 fat) unless you supplement and weight train. BUT even with weight training you can't lose any more than .7% of weight/week without losing muscle. For example, a person weighing 200 lbs can lose 1.4LB/wk (~750c/d deficit) - BUT they must supplement at least a daily multivitamin and mineral (MVM).  

The greater the deficit the more you need to supplement, meaning ideally to preserve or increase LBM you need you need to consume a diet consisting of ~500-1000 fewer calories than you burn, a MVM, and a pre/post workout formula. This is what all dieters should do because the goal is to increase LBM during weight loss to help burn more calories, not less. This can help offset the fitness/weight loss paradox: "The more fit and lighter we get, the fewer calories we burn when all things are equal and thus end up at plateaus, which forces us to make an unwanted adjustment.

I only eat 1000 calories daily but can't lose weight. Do I have a slow metabolism? What should I do? 
http://www.dotfit.com/content-35588.html
With all due respect, only a 90LB bedridden person would burn so few calories daily. Therefore, unless that describes you, you need to improve the accuracy of your food intake records. So that's the good news; only the math is flawed, not your metabolism. Currently, its very clear that metabolisms between like-people (same weight, gender, etc.) don't significantly vary so metabolism is definitely not your problem. 
Regardless of your food or exercise recording, first remember anytime you are attempting weight loss, come to a weight loss plateau or are gaining unwanted weight, you need to move more, eat less or a combination of the two if you want to proceed to the weight loss goal - PERIOD. The evidence-based (scientific) formula for weight loss is contained within the dotFIT program. Set your goal to lose 1-2LBS/week, follow the directions each time you enter a new weight and you will reach your goal. If you follow the program, a measurable or visual reduction in body fat and/or weight should take place in a fairly consistent manner such as a decrease in circumference inches, and/or the desired average decrease in weight or body fat per week. If progress stops or slows dramatically, one or a mixture of the following adjustments will be necessary to re-start the process:
Increase daily activities (e.g. daily steps or other non-athletic/exercise activities)
Standing and pacing burns 2-3 times more calories than sitting for the same time period
There are approximately 2000-2500 steps (depending on stride length) in a mile. Walking 2000 steps will burn ~75-150 more calories (depending on individual size) than sitting for the same time and only takes ~20-30min and can be done anywhere, even in the office, while on the phone or watching TV
  Increase workout time or intensity
  Decrease food intake approximately 200 to 300 calories per day or remove a small portion of your largest meal
Repeat the process any time weight or body fat is stable for at least one week. Always remember if you stop losing weight/fat, you need to eat less, move more, or a combination of the two regardless of what you read or hear from others.
Why should I have to "count calories" to reach my goal?
http://www.dotfit.com/content-35968.html 
You don't have to if you are trending as desired to your goal and validating this through measurements/weight/appearance, etc. and feeling your best. In other words, you can tell without counting calories that you are moving in the right direction based on measurements or appearance. If you come to a plateau you simply need to eat less and/or move more than whatever you were doing that kept your mass stable (plateau) and this can simply be a reduction in portion sizes.
Counting calories is a good place to start for most people. Once you know how much you burn, you now know how much to eat to get started losing (or gaining) weight. Keep in mind that according to the data housed at the National Weight Control Registry (NWCR) on successful weight maintainers, people who lose weight and keep it off, record foods regularly.
The moral of the story is, if you can do it without counting calories, go for it, but percentages tell us more people will be successful if they pay attention to calories.
 And Finally
 When food logging does not match estimated thus perceived deficit:
http://www.dotfit.com/content-35969.html 

It is basically impossible for anyone to accurately record foods even if they weigh all foods and use label counts. Here’s why:
Labels are rarely accurate (can be up to 300% off)
Same food calorie counts often vary between sources
Impossible to accurately guess restaurant meals
Incomplete recall (missing items including sauces, dressings, etc.)
Generally people underreport 20-40%
You cannot account for LBM gains as the program can (only a measurement in body mass can determine this) and therefore part of a human calculated deficit may have been deposited in LBM, lowering the perceived deficit (i.e. client records a 500 avg. calorie deficit but gained a LB of muscle and therefore the deficit was ~ 200)*
Water – occasionally due to uncontrollable circumstances you may have gained some temporary water weight and therefore at this point in time the scale may not represent your body mass change, thus deficit accurately.
If you believe you have lost fat or weight and your scale does not confirm it, wait another week until your next weigh-in. Weight gain due to water retention will quickly subside or stabilize and within a 2-week timeframe you will receive a more accurate accounting of your combined food intake, deficit and body weight. Additionally, our body fat or circumference measurements (bi-weekly) will capture the true progress trend and match it to the weekly loss goal.
*LBM – you may have gained LBM since your last weigh in, off-setting a weight reduction from loss of BF – this is a desirable situation but fat loss will soon surpass the LBM increase when weight reduction is the primary goal. Therefore simply use the body fat reading as the current trend indicator.
Bottom line: all program short-term discrepancy issues go away over time – the true trend will emerge generally by the end of the 2nd week but certainly by the 3rd and no more excuses by the end of the 4th (after 2 follow-up BF & WT measurements), meaning the program numbers are correct and you must adjust accordingly.
Article: A Calorie is a Calorie - Or is it? (Also see referenced version)
http://www.dotfit.com/content-35971.html 
