Hi [CUSTOMER],
The bottom line:
Calories count most in weight loss but picking the foods that make up those calories that make you feel best is the key - pick the right one's for you personally and you will burn more calories (see attached Calorie is a Calorie article)
The studies attached give the latest take on diet make up and weight loss. Basically it all comes out the same long term but the goal is to do something you can sustain because long term is generally weight regain and maybe more so for very high protein dieters (see Macro Comp study attached)
Faster weight loss with higher protein  and protein is more satiating - at least in the short term
The Mediterranean diet is probably one of the healthiest since it contains good fats and carbs with lean proteins - and that's why we have one for everyone in our program

Below are some related Q&A from our Fitness Vault (click on the links or visit the entire section of Fit-pro Q&As)

Is the high protein/low carbohydrate best? Why?
What can we do to keep people motivated and break the weight loss and gain cycle permanently?

35. Why are so many people still so Carb cautious?
Only because they don't know the difference between good and bad carbs and carbs overall are not as important, from an energy supply standpoint, for the average adult as they are for athletes or active exercisers. From a health standpoint carbs such as fruits, vegetables and whole grains are very important and should make up 40-60% of the diet depending on your activity levels. Unfortunately refined grains/foods and added sugars are also carbohydrates, generally less healthy and considered contributors to weight gain when its actually the calories causing the weight gain - they just happen to be supplied in lousy food choices. So the message to stay away from carbs is to stay away from the bad carbs not the good but the average person doesn't hear that -it's just easier to be carb conscious all the way around. 
And finally, most people still don't grasp the fact that total daily calories in and out are what count NOT carbs!


From: [CUSTOMER]
Sent: Tuesday, June 11, 2013 3:15 PM
To: [NAME]
Subject: FW: dotFIT.com - Failed Recurring Order

Neal, can you answer the question for me below, please?

Thanks!
Chad

 
 
 
From: [EMAIL]
Sent: Tuesday, June 11, 2013 12:39 PM
To: [NAME]

Subject: Re: dotFIT.com - Failed Recurring Order
 
On another topic, does dotfit have any research on the paper that's attached from the New England Journal of Medicine? 2008 study on alternative to low fat (Med diets)
