Enduring Health and Fitness Myths

Elvis Lives! Alligators in the Sewers. People love a good story. The more sensationalistic and absurd, the longer the myth seems to endure. In the health and fitness world, there are exercise and nutrition myths that have survived for decades, even though a preponderance of information proves their inaccuracy. These myths are perpetuated by those that refuse to learn human science, those with a patent fear of technology and those that seek to purposely mislead to gain a competitive or financial gain. This latter group will go so far as to find a scientist for hire (or one who is slightly less ethical and can be influenced by the “dark side” – i.e., $) to support their product or concept by distorting science or taking a bit of truth and twisting it to start and perpetuate controversy, pandering to a non-scientist, skeptic audience who will keep it alive. 
There is no shortage of fitness myths, seeking to confuse and annoy the general public and generally waste time on useless methods of weight loss, performance or health. So without further ado, we will focus on several fitness myths that seem to be particularly pervasive. 

Sugar is making America fat 
All legitimate science agrees that the causes of continuous weight gain in developed nations consists of a variety of environmental, psychological and physiological factors, not sugar and sweeteners. Researchers found that obesity was positively linked with time spent watching TV or at a computer and diets high in fat. This review that looked at 38,409 individual’s ages 20-74 found no increase in body mass or obesity in populations that consumed sugar sweetened beverages vs. those that did not. Sweeteners are unfortunately guilty by association because of their presence in the foods and drinks (thus calories) we choose to consume. In other words, we can get fat on anything (including if we only ate whole grains, fish and salads) if we eat more calories than we burn. According to a 2003 article in Obesity Research “The use of caloric sweeteners has risen across the world, and has contributed to an increasing number of calories consumed per day, which leads to weight gain”. The sad truth is that as a society we simply make poor food and drink choices. No one would argue that a diet high in sugar and the low nutrient density foods that deliver it is good for you, but in the end these poor food choices are simply a delivery vehicle for excess calories. And don’t forget, too much of any nutrient can be bad for you including, meats, vitamins and minerals, fish oils, etc. If we consumed sugars in moderation like we should, there would be no health-related issues. Sadly, we would probably fill the calorie gap with something else and then blame all our problems on the substitute food. So, there is nothing inherently fat-producing about sugar. But, the reality is that sugary foods do make up a significant portion of the typical American’s diet. Coupled with low daily activity, this is a recipe for disaster, tipping the scale in favor of weight gain. The take home message should be more accurately, “reduce junk food intake and increase physical activity to improve health and body composition”. Not, “don’t eat sugar, it will make you fat.” 

High Fructose Corn Syrup (HFCS) makes you fatter than sugar and leads to type 2 diabetes: 
This is an offshoot of the sugar myth. Sugar lovers, not wanting to believe that poor food choices and inactivity are leading to their declining health, needed a new scape goat- HFCS. This definitely falls under the “it didn’t grow on a tree therefore it must be evil” category. Somehow, big business genetically designed this sweetener to enslave and hook the American public on their sweet, calorie rich, foods. It’s science, the average person is powerless against it. Oh please! It’s just another urban legend, according to John S. White PhD, a leading research consultant who specializes in nutritive sweeteners. “These allegations-such as increased fat production or increased appetite-are based on poorly conceived experimentation of little relevance to the human diet, which tests supraphysiologically (high levels) of fructose as the sole carbohydrate, often in animals that are poor models for human metabolism.” The conspiracy theory wackos that campaign loudest against this sweetener don’t even know what they really hate. Most of the anti HFCS nonsense available to the public is based upon research showing the adverse effects of a diet unrealistically high in fructose, not HFCS. I suppose knowledge of the chemistry of your vilified subject is too much to ask, but HFCS is similar in fructose content to regular sugar. HFCS starts as corn syrup, which is primarily glucose. Through an enzymatic process, approximately half of the glucose becomes fructose, making the syrup comparatively high in fructose when compared to regular corn syrup. White, granulated sugar is about 50/50 glucose and fructose. HFCS used in most beverages is 42% or 55% fructose, not significantly higher and maybe even lower in fructose than regular sugar (sucrose). The ratio of glucose to fructose in the American food supply has remained quite constant since the 1960’s. To truly eat a diet high in fructose, one would have to go out of their way to do it and it would not be easy to do. Studies have looked at the metabolism of HFCS, its effect on insulin, appetite, leptin, and ghrelin and found no significant differences from sucrose (table sugar).  It would be easy and simple if HFCS were the villainous substance that many want it to be, but consider that the rise in obesity in the US is mirrored around the world in all developed countries. HFCS is not a significant contributor of calories to the daily diet of countries outside of the US. In Latin American countries for example, soft drink consumption makes up a significant portion of total daily calorie intake, obesity is on the rise and they still use good old sucrose to sweeten their beverages. In this case it is the CALORIC contribution, coupled with decreased physical activity, which is increasing the region’s heft. 
Regarding the safety of sugar and other sweeteners consider this: since the advent of HFCS (and remember the vast majority of the US population is consuming it), the average lifespan has increased by ~two years (not because of HFCS, but it is not systematically killing off the population). As for sugars including fructose and HFCS, making us fat, the American consumption of ALL caloric sweeteners has been going down since its peak in 1999—to the tune of ~10 lbs. /year per person—while obesity during the same time period has climbed more rapidly than any other time in our history! 

What muscle you work determines where you lose your fat (spot reduction) 
Let me come right out of the gate with the punch line to this- a muscle does not own the fat over it. For a concept that everyone says they know cannot occur, an awful lot of people are doing things that would look like they are trying to spot reduce. Plié squats for the inner thighs? Inner and outer thigh machine? Every ab device ever invented? Butt and gut classes? Why are these done? If I had a dollar for every person that asked “what exercise can I do for this area right here” (while holding fat in their hand), you would not be reading this article, but rather hearing of my latest fruity drink on the beach in the Caribbean! Those performing these exercises generally are doing them in the hopes that fat will leave the area they are focusing on. 
Those of us in the fitness business are often asked questions such as:
a) What is the best way to tone your legs, stomach and back? 
You wouldn’t ask this question unless you thought a specific exercise could remove fat from the area. Here is what you do- lose body fat, uncovering your muscles that are as hard and toned as any bodybuilder’s, just not as big. In other words, “toning muscles” simply implies removing the fat that jiggles around when you move or touch it. Simply continue to consume fewer calories than you burn until your fat levels are reduced to your satisfaction. All that said, weight training can add muscle so that when you lose the fat your body has more pronounced lines or muscle definition. Larger muscles may help accentuate the body’s natural contours. 
b) How can I get rid of the excess fat around my thighs specifically? You can’t. Consider this-your thighs generally move more than any other body part but the fat still ends up there. As you maintain a calorie deficit (eat less than you burn), body fat will leave from whatever area your body was genetically programmed to draw it from at that point in time. As a rule of thumb, the last place on is the first place off, but this can change as you age. And again, if you maintain consuming fewer calories than you burn, that stuff on your thighs will go, it just might be the last place it leaves. 

A word of caution- many exercisers in an attempt to accelerate the loss of fat from a trouble area will launch an all out exercise attack on the area. Performing a high volume of resistance training for an area that is viewed as fat or bigger than liked may have the undesired affect of increasing muscle size (called hypertrophy) in that area. If caloric intake is sufficient (and it often is), and bodyfat is not being lost systemically, then the area of focus can increase, pushing the fat over it farther out, making it bigger. Exactly the opposite of what you wanted, isn’t it? 

If your goal is body fat reduction, you must train in your target heart rate zone because you will burn more fat; if you go over it you will burn muscle 
Plain and simple: If fat loss is the goal, the harder you work the more calories you burn and the faster you will lose fat if all else is equal (food intake). Ever seen a fat sprinter, professional basketball player or football defensive back that also has no muscle? These are three of the leanest, most muscular athletic-types and their training is almost exclusively high-intensity workouts that are well above or never in their target heart rate. 
Let’s look at the evolution of this myth, since it helps us to understand its origin. Heart rate zones and tracking intensity were measures designed to aid endurance athletes. This was to ensure that a given athlete did not work at a rate that would cause them to prematurely fatigue. If the athlete worked at too high of an intensity, then they would deplete their muscular CHO stores and “hit the wall” impeding performance. Training in the proper “zone” ensured that muscular carbohydrate would not be depleted and that activity could continue for the required time or distance. 
At rest, we are burning primarily fat in our bodies. As the intensity of activity begins to increase, so does the contribution of muscular and systemic carbohydrate. At ~20% VO2 max, fat contributes 60% and CHO 40% of the energy used. This contribution equalizes (50/50) at about 35% VO2 max. By 70% of VO2 max, CHO makes up 80% and fat 20% of the energy used to fuel activity. So, while it is true that fat makes up a bigger contribution of calories burned at a lower intensity, this has no application to a weight loss client. Fat/weight loss is ensured by being in a caloric deficit. The practical goal for the typical exerciser is how to maximize their time working out, so as not to “live in the gym”. At a higher intensity of exercise, more calories, and usually even more fat, are burned. Period! Additionally, there is a phenomenon called EPOC (excessive post oxygen consumption) that indicates a higher rate of fat usage for many hours after the exercise session, BECAUSE of the exercise session. EPOC is directly correlated with higher intensity exercise, . Ultimately, you would have to exercise for twice as long at a lower intensity as you would at a higher intensity to get the same degree of calorie burn. As for muscle being burned, that will be influenced by total caloric intake, availability of glucose and duration of activity5. It can be a good thing if muscle is called upon to supply energy needs for the body as this leads to new muscle growth, just as weight training disrupts muscle tissue and leads to growth. In both instances, exercise served as a stimulus to “damage” muscle, leading to a rebuilding response. 
In summary, exercise itself does not burn a significant amount of body fat daily. It is the contribution of exercise to a person’s total daily energy expenditure, including the intensity, that affects overall fat loss. In other words, exercise simply adds to your daily calorie needs, so do all you can during your workout time because the longer and more intensely you move, the greater the amount of calories you will burn, leading to a greater fat loss. And the less fuel you put back in, the more must be drawn from your fat stores during the non-workout portions of your day. Therefore with everything else equal (e.g. workout duration, calorie intake, etc.) if you burn 500 calories more from training at a higher intensity, at the end of the day you will lose 500 calories (1/7th LB) more body fat each day you workout.

If I eat a diet that is too low in calories, will I damage my metabolism? Will I go into starvation mode and not burn any calories?
No and no. To put your entire issue into perspective, first realize that the people around the world who truly die of starvation do not pass away fat. Although most studies have failed to show any type of dieting leading to a slowing metabolism,,,, some research has shown a very slight downward adjustment when you severely cut calories even after accounting for change in body composition and weight reduction. However if there is an adjustment, the metabolism will quickly return to normal when body weight stabilizes (i.e. no longer losing weight)., This question is generally asked by overweight people who obviously eat too much no matter how many calories they tell me they consume. My answer to them: Nothing significant happens to your metabolism. If you need to lose weight and you are not, eat less and/or move more and forget about slowing your metabolism. 
That said, the point is not to lose weight too quickly by drastically reducing calories because that method is miserable and generally not sustainable. Second, although there is the slight (but fairly insignificant) down regulation in metabolism in response to a very low calorie diet, the main reason it may appear to slow down more than it actually does is because it’s the extremely low calorie intake that is slowing YOU down., In other words, you become less energetic, forcing a reduction in your daily activities, therefore burning fewer calories overall. Practically speaking, crash dieting with excessively low calorie intake leads to low energy, so you burn fewer calories all day and work out less intensely, and high hunger, increasing the chances of rebound and binge eating behavior. This can lead to a calorie intake that temporarily exceeds your pre diet intake, leading to a rapid re-accumulation of weight, making one think they have “damaged” their metabolism. And again it’s worth noting that any temporary, minor reduction in metabolic rate due to excessively low caloric intake is regained once caloric intake is increased or weight stabilizes. So, no, your metabolism is not damageable.
Take home message: Never blame failure on metabolism, no matter what anyone tells you! Simply move more.

I know plenty of slim people who don’t exercise and claim they can eat anything they want. Are some people’s natural metabolisms just higher than normal, allowing them to eat more without exercising? 
Individual metabolisms do vary, but not much. And the people who stay slim and eat anything they want either don’t want much (total calories) or move enough (daily activities including fidgeting) to cancel whatever they eat. In other words, people who get fat eat too much in relation to how much they move, whether they exercise or not. People who stay thin and don’t exercise eat as much as they move. Those that tend to stay thinner have the habits that overweight people need to adopt. They tend to eat more slowly, eat smaller portions and move continuously. The calories in are countered by the calories out. In fact, the heavier you are (no matter who you are) the more calories the body burns. So put that heavier, more calorically expensive body to work and get moving! More weight in motion means more calories burned per unit of time. 

Final note on metabolisms and plateaus: The fast and slow “metabolism thing” has been overblown and become a bad excuse for many people. Anyone can get their daily calorie burn (overall metabolism) as high as they need by simply moving or standing more. 
The main reason the body comes to plateaus during dieting or exercise (besides consciously or unconsciously not properly following the plan), is that when weight is lost you and you become more fit, your body uses fewer calories to perform the same workload (22). Your muscles are more efficient making work easier and you are moving less body weight during all activities, forcing you to add work or eat less in order to continue to progress. 
My general recommendation for plateaus for people who eat well and exercise regularly (therefore are “tapped out” as far as time or cutting calories) is to simply increase your daily movements at home or at the office. Stand or pace anytime you can instead of sitting: pace the room while on the phone or thinking, take stairs instead of elevators or escalators, park farther away from your final destination, take a walk at lunch, walk to a colleague’s office to talk rather than use e-mail or the intercom, etc. Additionally, you can try changing your workout, including the intensity and type of cardio you perform, which can help you burn a few more calories in the same workout timeframe. And never sit down or stop moving in the gym.

So there you have it. You can now take these myths off your list and get on with your fitness goals. It is always amusing how many people ask these questions and want to believe these myths to be true, but somehow know in their heart they are not. At times we may sound like a broken record, relating everything back to calorie balance, but these are the undisputable facts that all changes in body composition (energy stores) are tied too. We are in the business of helping people achieve better health and those in pursuit of body change. If we could sell you story and it worked, we would. But, we are left with the simple truth that body weight and appearance are under the control of the laws of science and thermodynamics (the science of energy relationships). Calories (energy) in versus calories out determine whether you will stay the same, gain or lose weight. End of story.


