Why CAN’T You Control Your Weight – IF You Have The Answer?
The simple answer to the question is motivation, because everyone knows how to lower their weight – everyone. Yes, ALL adults know (albeit many are in denial) that their undesirable or oversized fat stores are a result of eating or drinking more than they need. Therefore everyone knows the one and only answer is to eat less, move more or a combination of the two – hello!
I travel and lecture all over the world and I have yet to meet an adult that truly doesn’t know the aforementioned fact, nor have I met a person that desires to become overweight. Ok, so why is the majority of the adult population overweight? The first part of the answer is that people can’t see or feel daily weight changes. The average adult gains 1-3LBS/yr, or in daily numbers, ~1/365 -1/182LBS/day (or in calories: an average of 10c-30c/day more than you burn) thus allowing the gain, which leads to the second part. Body fat creeps up so slowly it’s easy to ignore until it requires effort to reduce – and the perceived effort (i.e. current weight loss programs/methods) requires motivation. Motivation to change your lifestyle means motivation to change your behavior requiring lots of thinking, planning, sometimes counseling and executing actions that may not be your first (second, third or fourth for that matter) choice of long lasting behavior validated by the typical results, weight regain. Yet as mentioned, you DO know why you are overweight.
How do we lower the need for motivation
Let’s go back to where we started. You are overweight because you ate more than you moved, meaning more than necessary. You also know that now you need to eat less and/or move more to fix it. Ok, nowhere in this conversation did anyone tell you what to eat or how to move – correct? So what’s the simple answer to reverse the problem WITHOUT requiring life changing or threatening motivation?
You CAN eat ANYTHING you want – you just CANT’T eat EVERYTHING you want
Meaning, do what you do but just a little less and/or a little more – in other words reverse what got you here. That’s right, no lifestyle change just a minor adjustment. The rest will take care of itself. As soon as you make a big deal out of losing weight, you have taken your first step to failure.
To succeed you only have to pay attention to a number, but - you need the number.
You WON’T manage what you CAN’T see and you CAN’T manage what you DON’T know
 To successfully achieve your goal weight YOUR way, you need to KNOW how many calories you use every day so you KNOW how many you CAN eat to lose weight or not get fat. Now you have something to manage that’s controllable daily, simple numbers – and remember, numbers don’t lie, people do.
Motivation will come from seeing body fat coming or going in real time and anytime, hourly, daily, weekly, etc.  When you CAN see your daily body fat gains and losses, it’s simple to manage them because there is little effort in taking one less bite or 10 extra steps to stay on track. The “icing on the cake” is that you actually receive, as opposed to need, motivation from having the visibility into real time changes in your body fat. You can now view hourly and daily changes in weight and body fat as opposed to waiting until they are confirmed by the scale or change in clothing size.
Visibility allows flexibility – do it your way
Again, nowhere have you heard what to eat or do. All we have said is, “know how many calories you burn, what you want to weigh and when, so here’s how many calories you get to eat. The more you move, the more you can eat”.
When it comes to accomplishing a weight or body fat goal, only you need to care what you eat, or what you do to burn calories when you start your journey, because all that’s necessary, is that you start. So, on average, just burn more than you eat until you reach your goal. No program – just your life and the right tool to tell you all you need to know – the exerspy.
Side note: Every adult knows the difference between good and not so good food – and of course your calories should be made up of better foods – but hey, you figure that one out because at the end of the day, only the difference between your burn and your consumption determine your weight loss – NOTHING else.
The same formula applies to all of us, including those that eat well and exercise religiously but still have that pesky little spot of body fat that just won’t go away – same answer. Repeat after me, “eat less calories on average than you burn (do it your way) until it goes away”. And always bear in mind, you CAN’T spot reduce.
The final Weight Control Facts:
Individual total calorie intake is determined by personal activity, body statistics and goal including desired timeframe. The foods that make up your allowed calories can be structured to improve health & performance
One single fact determines the rate of weight/fat loss: the average daily calorie deficit, which is the difference between how many calories you burn and the amount consumed. Weight loss should proceed at a pace that does not compromise health or performance
Exercise design is for your body’s structural enhancements including functionality/performance, longevity, aesthetics, etc. Exercise also increases daily calorie burn and helps maintain desired weight
You must be the creator of your program or you won’t be the master 
The only way you will own a behavioral change is if you create it. Start anyway you can, sticking to the simple rule: average less calories in than out until you reach your goal – follow the number.
The good news is, “one good turn deserves another”, meaning, as your body looks better, you do things better. BUT you need to make the first turn easy and on your terms or you take the second step to failure. Square pegs don’t fit in round holes – you need to own your program because that’s the life you choose, not someone else choosing one for you. You want to be lean but you want to accomplish it your way – your life. Your program must be fit to YOU, rather than  you trying to fit into a program.
