Peptide Program
BPC-157
Since you will be using it for a specific injury area, the BPC-157 will be injected locally (site specific) and dosed with the goal of healing the local tissue damage/irritation and used for 5weeks followed by a 2-week tapering off period. Injections have superior results compared to oral administration. The latter only exists because the compound is unusually stable in gastric juice.
Site specific injections (unlike systemic injections) are normal for musculoskeletal injuries. The injection is near the injury for greater localized effects, although there is still an overall accelerated body recovery effect that also helps overcome the age-related slower exercise/activity recovery.
Goal: localized tissue repair and support and general whole-body recovery enhancement through:
  Modulating growth pathways, especially vascular endothelial growth factors stimulating the formation of new blood vessels (angiogenesis) 
  Enhancing fibroblast (cells necessary for tissue health and crucial for repair) migration and collagen synthesis to repair tissue
  Nitric oxide signaling modulation
Dose (may vary in syringe volume with methods of reconstitution – follow supplier directions) *
First 5 weeks: 500mcg per day
Week 6: 250mcg per day
Week 7: 250mcg 2 times evenly spread, such as Monday & Thursday
Week 8 off until further notice
Recommended injection site: near the injured area (not into it if it’s structural)
Notes
Always complete nutrition programming (including longevity supporting supplementation), sleep, load management, and rehab first – all which you have done
BPC-157 is not FDA-approved for human therapeutic use but commonly used safely
Human data is limited; most mechanistic evidence comes from animal models, but empirical (practical human experience) is strong favoring safe results
Because peptides mimic natural substances, when they are metabolized in the body, their constituent AAs can be recycled with little to no stress on organs or metabolism unlike most drugs.

*You will reconstitute each 10mg vial with 2milliliters (2full syringes) of BAC water, meaning 1-full syringe will hold 5mg of BPC. You only need .5gms (500micrograms or one-tenth of 5gm) daily. Since each syringe holds 100 units per milliliter, which now totals 5gms of BPC, and you need one-tenth of the 5gms/day, you would fill the syringe to the 10unit line for each daily shot. All in all 1-vial (10mg) should last 20days at .5mg/day. 
