Tesamorelin Program (see V2 note)
Growth Hormone (GH) secretagogue is a step above the popular sermorelin because it is longer acting and more robust in increasing GH pulses and raising insulin growth factor-1 (IGF-1), which carries out what GH initiates (e. g., building muscle, burning more fat, etc.). This will be administered (systemically injected) and used for a total of 20weeks followed by a 4-week tapering period and subsequent bloodwork.   
Systemic Injection (Non-Site-Specific) for your goal of building muscle and reducing visceral (belly) fat
Goal: increase natural GH release to optimize its axis through:
Stimulating the pituitary gland (PG) to release GH (more pulsing) and subsequently raising lipolysis (fat burning) and IGF-1 levels
Improves the downstream actions of more GH and IGF-1
Growth-factor pathway interaction
Dose (may vary in syringe volume with methods of reconstitution – follow supplier directions) *
Usually administered in evening to align with natural GH rhythms (regardless stay consistent in timing)
First 20 weeks: 1mg/day, (FDA-approved dose for lipodystrophy 1-2mg/d); week 21- 23: .5mg (500µ)/day, 4d/week; last week .5mg 2 times (e.g., Monday & Thursday)
Week 25 off until further notice; week 30 bloodwork (see recommendation) 
Recommended injection site: subcutaneous abdomen; thigh or glute – your choice and may alter.
NEXGEN Product Dosing (see below for personal reconstitution)
1-full syringe is 1mL in volume; there are 2mg of Tesamorelin in 1mL.
Daily dosage: ½ full syringe (50units) = 1mg/d.
Taper dosage: ¼ full (25units) = .5mg (500µ)
1-vial = 10-day supply (~15-16 vials for duration)

After 6 weeks we will assess progress (subjective) and decide if an IGF-1 LR3 peptide add is warranted

*V2 program: You will reconstitute each 10mg vial with 2milliliters (2full syringes) of BAC water, meaning 1-full syringe will hold 5mg of Tesamorelin (TM). You only need 1mg/day (one-fifth of 5gm) daily. Since each syringe holds 100 units per milliliter, which now totals 5gms of TM, and you need one-fifth of the 5gms/day, you would fill the syringe to the 20 unit line for each daily shot. All in all 1-vial (10mg) should last 10days at 1mg/day.
