Peptide Program
Tesamorelin
Growth Hormone (GH) secretagogue is a step above the popular sermorelin because it is longer acting and more robust in increasing GH pulses and raising insulin growth factor-1 (IGF-1), which carries out what GH initiates (e. g., building muscle, burning more fat, etc.). This will be administered (systemically injected) and used for a total of 20weeks followed by a 4-week tapering period and subsequent bloodwork.   
Systemic Injection (Non-Site-Specific) for your goal of building muscle and reducing visceral (belly) fat
Goal: increase natural GH release to optimize its axis through:
Stimulating the pituitary gland (PG) to release GH (more pulsing) and subsequently raising lipolysis (fat burning) and IGF-1 levels
Improves the downstream actions of more GH and IGF-1
Growth-factor pathway interaction
Dose*: Usually administered in evening to align with natural GH rhythms (regardless stay consistent in timing)
First 20 weeks: 1mg/day, (FDA-approved dose for lipodystrophy 1-2mg/d); week 21- 23: .5mg (500µ)/day, 4d/week; last week .5mg 2 times (e.g., Monday & Thursday)
Week 25 off until further notice; week 30 bloodwork (see recommendation) 
Recommended injection site: subcutaneous abdomen; thigh or glute – your choice and may alter.
*(may vary in syringe volume with methods of reconstitution – follow supplier directions)
NEXGEN Product Dosing
1-full syringe is 1mL in volume; there are 2mg of Tesamorelin in 1mL.
Daily dosage: ½ full syringe (50units) = 1mg/d.
Taper dosage: ¼ full (25units) = .5mg (500µ)
1-vial = 10-day supply (~15-16 vials for duration)

After 6 weeks we will assess progress (subjective) and decide if an IGF-1 LR3 peptide add is warranted
IGF-1 LR3 (5/6 weeks, 50–100µ daily; 1mg=20 50µ shots/vial [25units/shot]); 1vial=1mg (1000µ)
Primary Use: Promotes muscle growth, recovery, and nutrient partitioning through direct anabolic signaling. Often considered one of the most potent downstream mediators of growth hormone activity. 
Mechanism: A modified long-acting IGF-1 analog that binds directly to IGF-1 receptors, stimulating protein synthesis, satellite cell activation, muscle tissue growth, and cellular recovery through activation of the Akt/mTOR anabolic pathway. Unlike GH secretagogues, it bypasses the pituitary and acts directly at the tissue level. (Note: Unlike Tesamorelin or Sermorelin, IGF-1 LR3 does not increase natural growth hormone production—it acts downstream of GH by directly activating IGF-1 pathways).
